The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of the 2006 Members Meeting 

February 24, 2006

The members of the Python Software Foundation (the &quot;PSF&quot;) held its
annual meeting on February 24, 2006 at 17:10 CST (23:10 UTC) in the
Marriott Quorum Hotel in Dallas/Addison, Texas, USA (PyCon TX 2006).
Stephan Deibel presided over the meeting.  David Goodger prepared
these minutes.

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Review of the Year <#review-of-the-year>`_- `2.1   Financial Review <#financial-review>`_  - `2.2   Grants Process <#grants-process>`_  - `2.3   PyCon Report <#pycon-report>`_

- `3   Elections <#elections>`_- `3.1   New Nominated Members <#new-nominated-members>`_  - `3.2   New Sponsor Member <#new-sponsor-member>`_  - `3.3   New Board of Directors <#new-board-of-directors>`_

- `4   Discussion of the PSF as an Umbrella Organization <#discussion-of-the-psf-as-an-umbrella-organization>`_

- `5   Discussion of Bug Tracker Migration <#discussion-of-bug-tracker-migration>`_

- `6   Other Business <#other-business>`_

- `7   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members were present at the meeting: 

- ActiveState (represented by David Ascher)

- Advanced Simulation Technology Inc. (represented by Andrew Kuchling)

- Array BioPharma (represented by Matt Boersma)

- David Ascher

- Facundo Batista

- Donald Beaudry

- David Beazley

- Brett Cannon

- Andrew Dalke

- Stephan Deibel

- Jeff Elkner

- Enthought (represented by Travis Vaught)

- Jim Fulton

- David Goodger

- Raymond Hettinger

- Neil Hodgson

- Steve Holden

- Michael Hudson

- Jeremy Hylton

- Eric Jones

- Andrew Kuchling

- Martin von L?wis

- Mike McLay

- Merfin LLC (represented by Reggie Dugard)

- Gustavo Niemeyer

- Neal Norwitz

- Open Source Applications Foundation (represented by Ted Leung)

- Samuele Pedroni

- Tim Peters

- Armin Rigo

- Guido van Rossum

- Christian Tismer

- Thomas Wouters

- Moshe Zadka

- Zope Corporation (represented by Jim Fulton)

The following members were represented by proxy (in parentheses): 

- Anthony Baxter (Tim Peters)

- Matthew Dixon Cowles (Tim Peters)

- Thomas Heller (Martin von L?wis)

- Richard Jones (David Goodger)

- Cameron Laird (Tim Peters)

- Alex Martelli (Neal Norwitz)

- Trent Mick (David Ascher)

- Skip Montanaro (Brett Cannon)

- Barry Warsaw (Brett Cannon)

44 members were in attendance or represented by proxy, constituting a
quorum according to the Bylaws.

`2   Review of the Year <#id2>`_
--------------------------------

`2.1   Financial Review <#id3>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Neal Norwitz (Assistant Treasurer) reported on behalf of Kurt Kaiser
(Treasurer).  In summary:

    At the end of 2004, the PSF's assets totalled $154K.  At the end
    of 2005, the total was $267K.  PyCon is estimated to yield a
    profit of $10K.

    As a U.S. 501(c)(3) tax-exempt public charity, the PSF is required
    to have at least 33% public support.  We currently have 60% public
    support.

`2.2   Grants Process <#id4>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Martin von L?wis reported on the PSF Grants Committee.  In summary: 

    Three grants were approved: 

    - Implementation of SNMP v.3: completed

    - Software Engineering with Python for Scientists and Engineers: under development.

    - Moving Jython Forward: under development.  Brian Zimmer wasn't able to complete the project; we recently agreed on a grant amount for the completed portion.  Frank Wierzbicki will complete the project and will be awarded the remainder of the grant.

    Problems: 

    - Most proposals asked for the full amount of the grant pool.

    - Many proposals were not suitable.

    - Proposals should be for PSF-generated projects (i.e. proposals to work on projects we want done).

    - The Grants Committee had much more work than anticipated.

    Should we continue with the grants?

A wide-ranging discussion ensued: 

- Implement bounties?

- Lack of mentor time for Google's Summer of Code.

- This needs a mission.

- Wiki-based peer review?

Further discussion was deferred.

`2.3   PyCon Report <#id5>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Andrew Kuchling (Conference Committee Chair) reported.  In summary: 

    Attendance: 406 in TX/2006, compared to 430 in DC/2005. 

    Estimated profit: under $10,000. 

    There will be a meeting on Sunday regarding the PyCon 2007 and the
    PyCon 2008 bid process.

`3   Elections <#id6>`_
-----------------------

`3.1   New Nominated Members <#id7>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After discussion, all proposed nominated members have been elected
(vote counts not available):

- Georg Brandl

- Paul Everitt

- Jim Hugunin

- Travis Oliphant

- Anna Martelli Ravenscroft

- George Paci

`3.2   New Sponsor Member <#id8>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The board had already approved CCP Games as a pending sponsor member.
CCP Games was approved by the members (vote count not available).

`3.3   New Board of Directors <#id9>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All eight candidates were elected for the eight board positions (vote
counts not available):

- David Ascher

- Brett Cannon

- Stephan Deibel

- David Goodger

- Steve Holden

- Andrew Kuchling

- Martin von Loewis

- Tim Peters

`4   Discussion of the PSF as an Umbrella Organization <#id10>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------

Summary of the discussion: 

- Should the PSF should become an umbrella organization similar to the Apache Foundation?  We could provide infrastructure (SVN, mailing lists, new bug tracker, etc.) and help protect I.P.

- What would the criteria for membership be?

- We're already spread thin.

- A decision is premature; this should be discussed during the year.

- What are the priorities?

- Hire a part-time PR coordinator for Python & PyCon?

- Focus on education & science: articles, how-tos.

- How to grow Python's user base?

- Big projects to join by invitation?

- Awards/rewards for successful, established projects & articles?

- Batteries included / sumo distribution?  (Hard work, a huge effort.)

- Add ratings of modules/projects to the Cheeseshop and/or site?

- Advocating Python for newbies ? most important priority?

Approximately 60% of members in attendance supported the umbrella
organization idea as a long-term (2+ year) goal.

Action items for next year? 

- Strategy to increase user base?

- Improve library & tools for developers

- PSF support of conferences in other countries

Further discussion was deferred.

`5   Discussion of Bug Tracker Migration <#id11>`_
--------------------------------------------------

Brett Cannon proposed migrating away from the SF bug tracker; Python
has outgrown it.  There are several candidates for bug tracking
software.  Brett proposed that the Infrastructure Committee take on
this task, and that he and Barry Warsaw would take leadership roles.

`6   Other Business <#id12>`_
-----------------------------

Eric Jones noted that quorum for member meetings could become an issue
in 4 or 5 years.  We should be migrating inactive members to Emeritus
status.

`7   Adjournment <#id13>`_
--------------------------

There being no further business, S. Deibel adjourned the meeting at
19:12 CST.