Diversity resources:
`DiversityInPython <http://wiki.python.org/moin/DiversityInPython>`_.

Diversity Statement
-------------------

The Python Software Foundation and the global Python community welcome
and encourage participation by everyone. Our community is based on mutual
respect, tolerance, and encouragement, and we are working to help each
other live up to these principles. We want our community to be more
diverse: whoever you are, and whatever your background, we welcome you.

Diversity Appendix
------------------

We have created this diversity statement because we believe that a
diverse Python community is stronger and more vibrant.  A diverse
community where people treat each other with respect has more potential
contributors and more sources for ideas.

Although we have phrased the formal diversity statement generically to
make it all-inclusive, we recognize that there are specific attributes
that are used to discriminate against people.  In alphabetical order,
some of these attributes include (but are not limited to): age, culture,
ethnicity, gender identity or expression, national origin, physical or
mental difference, politics, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation,
socio-economic status, and subculture.  We welcome people regardless of
the values of these or other attributes.

The Python community welcomes people no matter what languages they are
fluent in.  (Although core Python development is done in English.)  The
Python community encourages the creation of user groups in all locales,
and many of them are listed at
`http://wiki.python.org/moin/LocalUserGroups <http://wiki.python.org/moin/LocalUserGroups>`_
Many of these user groups also have mailing lists in the locally
preferred language.

If you want to help create a more diverse Python community, we encourage
you to join the diversity mailing list at
`http://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/diversity <http://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/diversity>`_.