The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

July 16, 2002. 

A regular regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the
"PSF") Board of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 1 pm
EST.  Guido van Rossum, president of the Foundation and chairman of
the Board, presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following Board members were present: Tim Peters, Guido van
   Rossum, David Ascher, Jeremy Hylton, Martin von Loewis, Marc-Andre
   Lemburg.  The following members were absent: Thomas Wouters.  
   A quorum was present.

2. Minutes approved
###################

The minutes from the June 11, 2002 meeting were approved by a 5-0-1
vote (5 yes, 1 abstention).

3. Officers reports
###################

Secretary: Hylton reported that he contacted Anthony Baxter, Dave
Beazley, Andy Robinson, and Just van Rossum about their membership
nominations.  And Michael Hudson was subscribed to the psf-members
mailing list.

Treasurer: Hylton wrote a check to Zope Corp. for $1,419.30 to
cover legal fees related to our IRS charity application.  Ascher
reported that a check for the ActiveState membership fee was
mailed.

Conference committee: Nothing to report.

4. Legal review of contributor agreement
########################################

There was some earlier miscommunication about whether the
contributor agreement was ready for legal review.  Lemburg agreed
to write a cover letter that describes what issues on which we'd like
a lawyer's opinion.

5. Public support committee
###########################

Hylton notes that we can now accept donations because we have filed
Form 1023 with the IRS.

6. IRC members meeting
######################

The board discussed whether it would be legal and practical to hold
member meetings using IRC.  The Apache Software Foundation (ASF) uses
IRC for member meetings, and the PSF bylaws are modelled after the ASF
bylaws.

Hylton suggested that the PSF get a lawyer's opinion of the
legality of IRC meetings.  Van Rossum suggested that an opinion was
unnecessary if no member objects.  He offered to report the board's
position to the members.

Lemburg asked whether email votes would be possible for actions
without a meeting.  Van Rossum noted that the membership had strong
reservations about email votes.

Lemburg then asked whether email could be used for official
announcements as well.  Hylton said that a change to the bylaws was
necessary and offered to draft an amendment.

7. Upcoming member meeting
##########################

The board reviewed the agenda for the member meeting to be held at
the open source conference -- on July 24, 2002 in San Diego, CA.  The
agenda consists of reports and a vote on new member nominations.

8. Adjournment
##############

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned.