The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

March 12th, 2002. 

Board meeting in session at: 18:07 GMT 

Present:

Guido van Rossum (presiding)

David Ascher

Jeremy Hylton

Marc-Andre Lemburg

Martin von Loewis

Tim Peters

Thomas Wouters (minutes)

No board members were absent. A quorum was present.

Agenda:
#######

- Meeting minutes of February 12th 2002
- Progress reports:   - 501(c)(3) application - Tax filing - Foreign charity status - Contribution forms - Public Support Committee - Treasurer
- Press release page
- Next member meeting
- Sponsor member payment deadline
- PSF Member applications received

1) Last minutes
###############

Marc-Andre notes the minutes to ASF meetings carry timestamps in
   them. Jeremy points out a few comments and omissions he feels are
   out of place in official meeting minutes. The comments are taken
   into advisement for the next minutes, and Guido will adjust the
   last minutes to suit and post them for approval to the mailing
   list.

Several points of order were raised, on the procedure to accept the
   minutes and on the procedure to propose, second and vote on
   motions.

2) Progress reports
###################

- 501(c)(3) application      Guido and Tim started the process of filling out Form 1023, which     should be submitted by 20 May 2002, and at least be submitted to a     legal review before that. A lot of work remains to be done, but     Guido is optimistic about the review. Tim notes they will need     Jeremy's help in answering some of the questions.
- Tax filing      The PSF has yet to file its US taxes over 2001. Guido has an     outstanding query at his own accountant, but hasn't heard back     yet. David notes Kevin Jacobs offered his [company's] services,     and that Kevin does a lot of accounting, including for non-profit     companies. Jeremy and Guido will contact Kevin or otherwise find     an accountant to handle the taxes.
- International charity status      Thomas notes Dutch tax laws seem to recognize only Dutch     institutions as (possible) charities for reasons of tax     deduction. Marc-Andre reports a similar case for German tax laws,     and notes the FSF is working on setting up offices in each EU     country for that purpose. It is generally agreed this is beyond     the PSF's reach at this moment.
- Contribution forms      Marc-Andre notes he has had no feedback regarding the contribution     forms, so far. The deadline for the forms is Friday March 15th,     after which they are subjected to the legal review. Martin notes     the deadline is not listed on the PSF website; Marc-Andre will     update the webpage.      Marc-Andre raises the question of the lawfirm to use for the     revew. Jeremy indicates the plan was to use Zope Corporation's     lawyer. The board agrees there is no conflict of interest in this     particular case, but it is noted the choice of lawyer may be     raised at later times, for other issues.
- Public Support Committee      The Public Support Committee has been formed, but no members     assigned yet. Marc-Andre is unclear on how to proceed; the exact     regulations regarding committees, and how to determine howmany and     which members to include. The board gives Marc-Andre free reign     within reasonable bounds and suggests to consult the board by mail     if there are any questions.
- Treasurer      Jeremy, as Treasurer, reports an expected income of $17000 in     sponsor fees this year, provided all current and prospective     sponsors pay up. A few payments and the Bank of America checking     account are being waiting on paperwork.

3) Press release page
#####################

Marc-Andre suggests to split up the press release page so it is
   clear which belong to the PSF itself and which are outside
   sources. The board agrees, and Marc-Andre will update the site.

4) Next member meeting
######################

Due to time constraints, it is decided to move this item to the next
   meeting or the mailing list. Guido also notes this should probably
   be handled in a small subcommittee.

5) Sponsor member payment deadline
##################################

David brings up payment deadlines: do we have them ? He suggests
   getting sponsor members to actually pay their dues might be easier
   if a fixed deadline and set consequences were established and
   clear. Jeremy points out the Bylaws are specific in the matter of
   consequences: a sponsor member who has not paid his like a member
   in all respects except he cannot vote. Removal of company link,
   logo and name from the PSF website are also suggested.

Guido moves to set a deadline of 30 days for US companies, 60 days
   for other, starting at date of invoice. Thomas seconds the motion,
   and the motion carries with two abstentions which later turn out to
   be 'nay's.  Jeremy objects to the cavalier way motions are
   handled. Due to network problems he has trouble figuring out what
   is going on. Tim did not recognize the motion as such. The
   objections are noted. A discussion on clear IRC voting mechanisms
   is postponed to the mailing list.

6) PSF Member appliations
#########################

Requests to fill out PSF Member applications were sent out to all
   PSF members nominated for acceptance at the last PSF Member
   meeting. Martin and Guido have the impression the response rate is
   low, though no exact numbers are available. Jeremy will update the
   Wiki record with applications he received. Tim notes the PSF is not
   very interesting to members yet. This is expected to improve once
   the groundwork and paperwork is underway, and the PSF can focus on
   fulfilling its mission statement.

Martin moves to adjourn. Tim seconds the motion. The motion carries
with one abstention.

Board meeting adjourned at: 19:15 GMT

Resolutions:
############

Debtors are granted a 30 (60 for non-US debtors) grace period
    after date of invoice, after which measures are taken in
    accordance with the Bylaws.

Action items:
#############

- Marc-Andre will update the website to note the deadline for the   contribution forms.
- Marc-Andre will restructure the Press Release webpage.
- Jeremy will contact Kevin Jacobs regarding accounting.
- Jeremy will update the Member applications Wiki with applications he   received.