The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

May 14, 2002. 

Present:

David Ascher

Marc-Andre Lemburg

Martin v. L?wis

Jeremy Hylton

Tim Peters

Guido van Rossum

Thomas Wouters was absent; the Board had quorum. The meeting starts at
17:00 UTC.

Agenda:
#######

1. Minutes from two previous IRC board meetings still need to be
   approved.

2. Reports.

3. How are we doing on new members that were approved in February?  Is
   everybody now sworn in?

4. 501(c)(3) application status.

5. 2001 tax filing.

6. Next member meeting.

7. Python conferences in 2003

1. Last minutes
###############

The minutes from February 12th are approved with 4 ayes and two
   abstentions (Guido moves, Martin seconds). Approval of other
   minutes is deferred for a month.

2. Reports
##########

There were no reports.

3. New members
##############

Martin explains the Wiki page recording the application status, and
   reports that Barry Warsaw requested that new members subscribe
   themselves to the psf mailing list. Guido suggests that new members
   are added automatically to the mailing list. Martin volunteers to
   do so. There is discussion on the status of members who have been
   invited, but haven't sent their application form; Jeremy volunteers
   to remind Andy Robinson; Martin volunteers to remind the other
   potential members.

There is discussion on the number of members. Guido reports that we
   currently have 42 individual and 6 sponsor members; Jeremy reports
   that were 45 nominated members, and one pending sponsor member
   (STSI). Marc-Andre suggest that member meetings on IRC should
   allowed. There is agreement that this would be good, but would
   require changes to the bylaws. The board will discuss this next
   month.

4. 501(c)(3)
############

   Guido reports that little progress has been made, so that there is
   nothing to discuss.

5. Tax Filing
#############

Guido ask whether the PSF should file for 2001. Tim speaks in
   favour of doing so, since it shows we're responsible. Guido reports
   that the accountant said we are not required to file. David says
   it's a matter of CYA, and good for audits. Guido points out that it
   has to be done within two days; David offers help in filling the
   form out. Tim, Jeremy, and Guido will do a "paperwork sprint"
   today, and Jeremy will then check the draft against his records.

6. Member meeting
#################

Guido proposes to meet at OSCON. Marc-Andre suggest to have a
   meeting at EuroPython. There is discussion on the potential number
   of participants, the quorum, and the potential agenda. There is
   agreement that the meeting should be at OSCON.

The Board also discusses the status of the AB Strakt membership;
   Guido expresses concerns that the status of paperwork is often
   unclear in the PSF. Jeremy promises to send an email message to the
   board list for every piece of paper received, at the time of
   reception.

7. Next year's conferences
##########################

Guido asks whether Gina Blaber of O'Reilly can be told that we'll
   gladly have Python11 at OSCON2003. There is much agreement, Martin
   disagrees and proposes that the conference at OSCON should not be
   called Python11. There is discussion. Guido moves to tell O'Reilly
   to organize Python11 at OSCON 2003. Marc-Andre seconds. The motion
   is approved with 4 ayes, 1 nay, and 1 abstention.

There is also discussion about the conference organized by Yet
   Another Society (YAS). Guido reports that Adam Turoff has not
   responded to Email in this matter, and that the status of the
   conference is uncertain.

The board discusses conference committees. Guido volunteers to head
   a Python11 committee, David volunteers for the YAS
   conference. Jeremy suggest that there should be a single conference
   committee. There is discussion, then agreement to continue
   discussion next month.

8. Adjournment
##############

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 18:00
   UTC.