The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

November 11, 2003 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 18:00 GMT. Guido
van Rossum, president of the Foundation and chairman of the Board,
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Thomas Wouters, Guido van Rossum, Martin von L?wis, Tim
Peters, Jeremy Hylton, David Ascher. A quorum was present. Neal
Norwitz also participated in the meeting. Martin was taking minutes.

2. Meeting minutes of past IRC meetings
#######################################

The September minutes where approved with one abstention.
The October minutes draft was amended, and then approved unanimously.

3. Reports
##########

Thomas reported that a message received from Verisign on a
failed transfer of the python.org domain to the PSF should be
interpreted as an old attempt of the transfer which failed. Transfer
is still in progress.

Several people reported on the status of PyCon. Guido reported that
Steve Holden appears to be busy teaching, and no one else takes any
action. Neal reported that registration is proceeding and almost done;
it was happening in private mail between Trevor Troenjes, Steve
Holden, and himself. David commented that the PCC needs to know about
such activities. Guido remarked that the next priority should be the
papers deadline.

Thomas reported on the progress of the website committee. He
apologized for not dealing with the corporate links discussion, and
reported that the PWC has not done very much. The committee should not
do the redesign itself, but merely oversee it, and give feedback to
the web designers. Guido commented that the committee apparently did
not even do that. Jeremy asked whether Kevin Altis is still involved;
apparently, he is not. There was discussion about setting a deadline
for the work; Thomas will find a deadline and communicate
it. Marc-Andre's request for a policy on corporate links is still
pending; Thomas will try to resolve this issue as well.

Neal reported that donations have decreased a bit; most new
donations currently come as a result of SpamBayes. Neal has added OSAF
and Array BioPhara to website as pending members, and received a check
from Array BioPharma. He also received a Cookbook check for $723.48.
He sent a form requesting Sales Tax Exemption for Washington, DC.  He
also sent letters to all sponsors that Archaeopteryx has changed to
emeritus member, that OSAF, Array BioPharma became pending members,
and to O'Reilly requesting checks sent to the PSF use my address.
He also reported that the current assets are $44,066.43, there are
no current liabilities.

4. Marketing
############

David reported on the status of the marketing-python group.  There
seems to be a lot of energy in that group, not especially well
channeled.  Some people are very set that the logo they picked _has_
to be the one that's chosen, and aren't willing to argue why. However,
various Board members have various concerns with that logo. David
believed that there is no coherence, no shared vision in that group,
and insults seem to fly around quite a bit.

There was discussion. Guido suggested that David works with the
group, showing them the direction that the PSF would like to take
these efforts to take, and that David heads a PWC subcommittee for
marketing. David agreed to work in such a committee.

5. Adjournment
##############

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned.