The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

June 10, 2003 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 17:00 GMT. Guido
van Rossum, president of the Foundation and chairman of the Board,
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: David Ascher, Guido van Rossum, Marc-Andre Lemburg, Martin
von L?wis, Tim Peters, Jeremy Hylton.  Thomas Wouters was absent.  A
quorum was present. Neal Norwitz also participated in the meeting.

2. Meeting minutes of past IRC meetings
#######################################

Guido moved to approve the minutes of May 2003. Motion passes
with 4 ayes and 2 abstentions.

3. Hosting Python development
#############################

Martin Dalum from SunSITE offered free hosting of Python
development at their new site `http://dotsrc.org <http://dotsrc.org>`_.  Martin von L?wis
reported on subsequent discussion with Dalum: Services offered are
ssh-based CVS access, backups, and developer access to the CVS
machine.  Dalum also expressed interest in a Roundup installation.

After some discussion, the board agreed that it should be responsible
for deciding whether to accept the offer.  Von L?wis agreed to draft a
migration strategy and come back to the board when it is complete.

4. Federal tax return
#####################

Norwitz reported that we failed to file a federal tax return, IRS
Form 990, by the May 15 deadline.  There is a $20/day late fee.  We
are not required to file a tax return, but we can choose to file one.
Next year, we will be required to file because of the amount of
revenue from PyCon.  Last year, we filed the return late, because we
wanted to have a return on file when we submitted our application for
charity status.

The board recommended that Norwitz prepare a return and make it
available from python.org but not file it with the IRS.

5. Spending money
#################

Norwitz reported that we have more than $22,000 in the bank.  He
and Hylton asked whether the PSF should start spending some of the
money.  There was brief discussion of the question.  Van Rossum
suggested that we not spend any money until legal issues have been
settled. 

5. Legal issues
###############

Lemburg agreed to send email to Cristin A. Conley at Carlton Field to
ask for review of the contribor agreements.  He has a specific list of
questions to ask.

Van Rossum reported that Doug McDonald from Carlton Fields will review
the agreement with CNRI to transfer the python.org domain.

6. Adjournment
##############

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned.