The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

May 13, 2003 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 17:05 GMT. Guido
van Rossum, president of the Foundation and chairman of the Board,
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting:
Thomas Wouters, Guido van Rossum, Martin von L?wis, Tim Peters, Jeremy Hylton. 
A quorum was present. Neal Norwitz also participated in the meeting. 

2. Meeting minutes of past IRC meetings
#######################################

Guido moved to approve the minutes of April 8th. Motion passes
with 5 ayes.

3. Treasurer Report
###################

Jeremy reminded the Board that tax filing is due on May 15. Neal
Norwitz does not have the necessary information, so Jeremy would
file one more time.

The books have not been transferred to Neal, yet. Jeremy will
get together with him in the next couple of weeks.

Jeremy reports the following cash flow: Greg Ward donated $50,
Kevin Altis donated $100, Matthew Dixon Cowles donated $50. We
also received a $500 check from ActiveState for conference sponsorship,
a $10,416 check from Yet Another Society for registration fees,
and a check from O'Reilly for $100 for sponshorship.
The bill for insurance came and it is $500.
Kurt DeMaagd from YAS reported on the total collected and the 
actual bank expenses.  We need to double-check his math, but he 
says he owes us 7825.90.
The last three numbers mean we made a net profit on the conference
of of 3782.46.

Guido reports that we were supposed to have gotten $3600 in
sponsor money, but only got $3100. The missing $500 is from
sams publishing.

4. Conference planning
######################

Thomas suggest that we should look into the next PyCon, and
suggests that Steve Holden is invited to chair organization
of that conference again. Thomas will contact him about that.

5. Sunsite DK
#############

Guido reports that Martin Dalum has offered to host the Python
development on Sunsite, which will be named ".src", to indicate
they have new sponsors now. In the discussion, it became apparent
that many details of that proposal were still vague. Martin
will contact Martin Dalum to find out further details.