The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

March 11, 2003 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 7 p.m. EST. Guido
van Rossum, president of the Foundation and chairman of the Board,
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting:
Jeremy Hylton, Marc-Andre Lemburg, Martin v. L?wis,
Tim Peters, Guido van Rossum, Thomas Wouters. 
A quorum was present.  

2. Meeting minutes of past IRC meetings
#######################################

Guido moved to approve the minutes of February 11th. Motion passes
with 4 ayes and 2 abstentions.

3. Treasurer report
###################

Jeremy reports that an advanced ruling from IRS for 501(c)(3) status
was received. We must demonstrate "public support" for period from
2001-2005

The income from the conference at the time of the meeting is as
follows: YAS registrations $15,969 (109 people), check registrations
$2,5950 (including $250 for sprint registrations that may be refunded)
Uncashed sponsor fees are $1,750, uncashed regular fees are $400,
including $100 needed to refund.

The expenses so far are: $9,731.25 for space fees (3 installments).
The current cash flow gives a net of $10,714.25.

Other recent income: Merlin contributed $1000 and O'Reilly $2,922.67. 

Pending expenses are $100 for Delaware state taxes, $300 for the
registered agent, and approx $750 for conference-related insurance.

The checking balance from 2/28 is $15,531.89. The income since tthen
is $20,706 for conference registrations and sponsor fees. Expenses since
then are $350 refunds for conference registration, $400 estimated taxes
and registration fees, $750 estimated liability insurance, $3243.75
final installment for conference space, giving a subtotal of $4743.75.

Thomas asks what the O'Reilly funds are. Jeremy confirms that they
are the first installment of Cookbook royalties.

Martin asks what further expenses are expected for the conference.
Jeremy points to Tripp Lilley's budget at
http://perspex.com/pycon/budget/20030310/budget.html

4. Conference planning
######################

Guido asks whether Jeremy can be given advance approval of
conference related expenses. There is discussion. Tim moves that
it is

RESOLVED, that the officers can spend PSF funds for the furtherance of the 
Python Conference, 2003, in an amount not to exceed projected conference 
revenue by more than US$3000.00. 

The motion passes unanimously. 

Thomas suggests that sprints are sponsored by the PSF. The proposal
is discussed, and it is concluded that such a decision is supported by
the motion just approved.

5. PSC report
#############

Marc-Andre gives a report on PSC activities. Stephan Deibel
suggested that several levels of sponsorship are offered, e.g.
silver, gold, platinum, sorted by amount; others suggested to
simply order sponsors by date. Marc-Andre proposes to sort
them by level, then by date.

Another suggestion was to use t-shirts and other merchandise
to generate donations, e.g. have $2 per t-shirt go to the PSF
and use cafepress.com for the processing.

Stephan Deibel also suggested that companies buy "donations
for bug fixes", but it was decided (in the PSC) that this is
too much work for the organizers, so they dropped the idea.

There was discussion. Jeremy suggested that the top sponsor
category be the same as the sponsor member fee, as we should
not accept large contributions until we have a lot of public
support.

Marc-Andre asks whether the PSC should a) go for the ordering,
b) look into one-click-donations, or c) use t-shirts and other
merchandise. He suggests to do all three. Tim agrees, but asks
that b) is done first. Thomas supports that priority. Marc-Andre
will take this recommendation back to the PSC.

Jeremy points out that the members should be informed about
the IRS pre-approval. Tim asks that setting up a one-click donation
procedure should be implemented in the very near future. Guido
points out a terminology confusion (people/companies sponsoring
the PSF, and sponsor members proper), and suggests to use the
term "sponsor" for members and "donor" for other supporters.

6. Member meeting
#################

Jeremy reminds the board that PSF members must be invited to the
member meeting at PyCon. Board candidates should step
forward on the PSF list, and new member nominations should be posted
there as well.

7.  PSF forms
#############

Martin suggests to use Rosen's form as-is. Marc-Andre is -1
on that proposal, asking for several forms of contribution.
Guido says he likes fewer forms better. 
Thomas is reluctant, saying it would mean a change of license.
The discussion is tabled for the board list.

8. Other business
#################

Jeremy says that a 2002 financial must be prepared, but he had
no time to do that. Thomas asks whether the report must be validated
by a third party. Nobody knows, and the issue is tabled until
the report is done.

9. Adjournment
##############

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned 
at 20:15pm.