The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

November 9, 2004 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 18:00 GMT. Stephan Deibel
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Jeremy Hylton, Stephan Deibel, David Ascher, Tim Peters,
Martin v. L?wis. Steve Holden joined later. Neal Norwitz was also
present. Martin was taking minutes.

2. Meeting minutes of past IRC meetings
#######################################

The October minutes where approved with 4/0/1.

3.Usage of Python License
#########################

Stephan reported that 118 projects on SourceForge use the
Python license, which might be legally confusing. He volunteered
to write an FAQ about using the Python license in other projects,
and suggested to contact the more prominent projects directly.

4. Contrib forms
################

Martin reported about the discussions with Larry Rosen about
the contributor forms. The open issue was the list of initial
licenses, for which the patent licensing was of primary concern.
If we would require a patent grant from the contributors, a
number of common licenses would be ruled out. Tim proposed that
we only offer contributors such licenses, and wait for somebody
to complain. Stephan was in favor of requiring a patent license
for patents the contributor holds, but opposed to requiring
contributors to claim that there are no patents on their 
contribution. Martin explained that, as a result of that, only
the Apache License, and the Academic Free License are real
candidates for an initial license. He suggested that contributors
might be surprised that they cannot contribute under the Python
License, and proposed that this should be explained to 
contributors.*Martin will circulate
a draft motion to adopt the forms to the PSF members*

5. Grants Committee
###################

Martin reported that Jeremy located 3 more proposals that had mistakenly
been ignored, they were now also being reviewed. One issue that the
committee needed board help with is the proposal by Tim Parkins, to
design a Python promotion website. Jeremy suggested that this should
be dealt with in the public relations committee, and that we should
avoid giving the impression of insider funding.

Stephan asked how board members would like to proceed with this
question. Martin commented he would like to see the project executed
either way: through the grants process, or explicit board
decision. Jeremy said he would like to see the PRC propose the
project. Tim Peters commented that Tim Parkins should not be
considered an insider. Also, if the grants committee funded it, it
should also control it.

Steve Holden joined the discussion. He reported that he proposed Tim
Parkins to submit the grants proposal, and did not really consider the
PRC to directly apply for funding for this activity. Tim Peters said
that if the work is really about redesigning pydotorg, it should be a
PRC project. *Steve will talk to Tim Parkins
about the issue, and propose a motion to run this within the PRC (or a
new committee replacing the PRC).*

6. Python Support Committee
###########################

Stephan reported that the PSC is dormant until there is need
for funding. Neal reported that our current public support
ratio is 54.5%. Jeremy asked whether the PSC could find funding
for specific projects if there was a need; Stephan answered
that he believed this to be the case, and that he was able
to raise funding for the docutils sprint easily.

7. Adjournment
##############

Their being no further business, Stephan adjourned the meeting at 19:01.