The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

August 10, 2004 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 17:00 GMT. Stephan Deibel
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Jeremy Hylton, Steve Holden, Tim Peters, Stephan Deibel,
Martin v. L?wis. David Ascher joined after the first agenda item. Neal
Norwitz also attended the meeting. Martin was taking minutes.

2. Meeting minutes of past IRC meetings
#######################################

The July minutes where approved with 4/0/1.

3. Reports
##########

Neal sent the treasurer report by email before the meeting. Martin
asked why rotormodule was announced to BXA when it is going to be
removed; Neal explained that it is just deprecated at the moment.

Martin reported that the Grants Committee has published the call, and
that first proposals have been received. Also, a number of questions
from potential submitters have been received; some of these still need
to be answered. Jeremy volunteered to write additional guidelines for
submitters. David wondered whether a mailing list for potential submitters
should be created where they can discuss issues with the committee;
*Martin will create such a list*.

Stephan reported that the PSC that credit card acceptance is still in
the works, but progressing slowly.

Steve reported for the PRC that the Web redesign is well underway, put
stalled due to Tim Parkin being busy with paid work. The PRC will also
need to work out channels for information such as the grants news.

Jeremy reported that he is still trying to contact the lawyer he was
approaching for corporate law issues of the PSF. David asked whether
he should contact Heather Meeker for IP issues. The board agreed that
it would be a good idea to have specialists for either case.  *David will ask Heather for a letter of engagement,
to be sent to Jeremy.*

4. New Python License
#####################

Tim asked for comments on the proposed version 2 of the PSF license,
in the `Wiki <http://www.python.org/cgi-bin/moinmoin/PythonSoftwareFoundationLicenseV2Revised>`_. There
has been little feedback so far. *David will
ask the AS lawyer for comments.*

5. Insurance
############

Per email, Neal indicated that insurance cost have increased, so his
budget for that needs to be increased. Stephan moves that it is

    RESOLVED, that the treasurer is authorized to pay up to $750 per
      year for insurance.

The motion passed unanimously (6/0/0).

6. PyCon
########

Per email, Neal had proposed a budget for PyCon. Guido van Rossum
had remarked that this only predicted expenses, not income, and that
he would prefer a more detailed budget plan for PyCon. At the IRC
meeting, Steve said he had no formal budget drawn up yet, but that
the resolution is adopted in its current form; he would present
the budget to the next board meeting. Martin said he did not like
this, because Guido already had objected and is not present at the
meeting. He asked what the initial expenses would be, and at what
time they would be due. Steve answered a 10% deposit would be required,
roughly $2,500. Stephan then moved that it is

    RESOLVED that the conference committee is authorized to spend $3000 for room reservations for PyCon 2005.

The motion passed unanimously (6/0/0).

7. Other business
#################

Tim nagged Jeremy about 1023 progress. 
*Jeremy volunteered to scan the documents
sometime during this week.*

Martin asked how the grant committee should deal with the potential
of projects that get half-completed; in particular, what should be
done about funds that already have been paid? The board agreed that
the projects should have milestones which should be prerequisites
to payments; then it would be no problem if only partial results
are achieved.

8. Adjournment
##############

Their being no further business, Stephan adjourned the meeting at 18:00.