The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors   December 14, 2004
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the &quot;PSF&quot;) Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 18:00 UTC, December
14, 2004.  Stephan Deibel presided at the meeting.

1   Attendance
--------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: David Ascher, Stephan Deibel, Jeremy Hylton, Guido van
Rossum, Steve Holden, and Tim Peters.

David Goodger (not in attendance) prepared these minutes from the IRC
log recorded by S. Deibel.

2   Meeting minutes of past meetings
------------------------------------

The November minutes were approved with a 4-0-2 vote.

3   Grants Committee
--------------------

The PSF lawyer will draft a proposal contract letter that grant
proposers should sign and return.  The main points of the letter will
be:

- proposer will do what the proposal states,

- proposer will send regular progress reports to the PSF Grants Committee, and

- payment will be made in installments.

The proposals list deliverables and payment will be made in part up
front and then after each deliverable is received.

    RESOLVED, that the PSF accepts the recommendation of the grants
    committee to execute the following three projects in 2005:

    - Brian Zimmer, Moving Jython Forward, US$10,000

    - Ilya Etingof, implementation of SNMPv3 as a Python library module, US$1,500

    - Greg Wilson, Software Engineering with Python for Scientists and Engineers, US$27,000

    Approved, 5-0-1.

J. Hylton proposed that the runners-up be sent email saying the Grants
Committee would have liked to fund their proposals and please come
back next year.

S. Deibel proposed possibly approving more funds for runner-up
proposals.  D. Ascher recommended waiting until we get a better idea
whether the current process works.

4   Web Site Redesign
---------------------

S. Holden has received a request from Tim Parkin to review a more
detailed plan, but hasn't had time yet.  Once he responds, T. Parkin
will submit a proposal which the whole Board can see.  S. Deibel
deferred the discussion & vote.

5   PyCon
---------

There's a possiblility that G. van Rossum wouldn't be able to attend
PyCon.  This would cause some disappointment, as it's many people's
reason for attending PyCon.  S. Holden reports that the current budget
has a contingency element that could be used to fund G. van Rossum's
costs.  Also, the Conference Committee is currently looking for
suggestions for other delegates to sponsor to PyCon.  S. Deibel
mentioned that the board could approve funds separately if necessary.

S. Holden reports that A. Kuchling will chair 2006 if asked.
Potential keynote speakers were discussed.  Possible venues are being
investigated.  We would like registration fees to remain at last
year's rate, which sees us break even at 210 delegates.  The PSF
lawyer can review any contract that may be proposed for 2006.

6   Reports
-----------

The November treasurer's report was mailed. 

Python Support Committee: S. Deibel reports that credit card
processing accounts are set up but he's still trying to find someone
with access to python.org that he can work with to make the system
live.  Plus there's some scripting needed to parse emails and such to
integrate this with Marc Andre-Lemburg's and Neal Norwitz's setups.
S. Holden volunteered to help.

Lawyer for PSF: J. Hylton reports that &quot;Melind Shaw seems to be on
board now.&quot;  In general, he will be able to do things pro bono as long
as they aren't very large or have very short deadlines.

7   Contributor Agreement
-------------------------

The contributor agreement form was approved in a unanimous email vote.

8   Adjournment
---------------

There being no further business, S. Deibel adjourned the meeting at
18:45 UTC.