The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

April 13, 2004 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 17:00 GMT. Stephan Deibel
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

p>The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Stephan Deibel, Steve Holden, Jeremy Hylton, Martin v. L?wis,
Tim Peters, and Guido van Rossum.  Neal Norwitz also attended.  A
quorum was present.  Hylton took minutes.

2. Meeting minutes of past IRC meetings
#######################################

The minutes of the March meeting were approved 5-0-1.  The minutes
of the February meeting were approved by a 3-0-2 vote.  The minutes of
the December meeting were approved by a 3-0-3 vote.

3. Reports
##########

Reports were sent by email.  [Need to be incorporated into minutes.]

4. Designation of Executive Vice President
##########################################

The Bylaws require that we appoint an executive vice president if
there is more than one vice president, although we have failed to do
that in the past.  David Ascher was nominated, although he was not
present to accept the nomination.

Deibel moved that it is

    RESOLVED, that David Ascher is designated Executive Vice President
    of the Python Software Foundation.

The resolution passed 6-0-0.

5. Grants Committee
###################

Von L?wis moved that it is

    RESOLVED, that a Grants Committee is formed, with Michael
        McLay, Paul Dubois, Jeremy Hylton, and Martin v. L?wis as
        initial members, and Martin v. L?wis as the initial chairman
        and Vice President of Grants, that the Grant Committee drafts
        for approval by the Board the rules for soliciting grant-funded
        development proposals designed to further the PSF mission, that
        the committee selects among proposals and oversees the completion
        of those that are accepted by the Board, and that members of
        the committee cannot apply for grants until one (1) year after
        they leave the committee.

The resolution passed 6-0-0.

Von L?wis said he hoped to set an August deadline for the first round
of grant proposals.

6. Public Relations Committee
#############################

Several issues were discussed before finalizing the details of the
public relations committee.  The board agreed that it was not willing
to pay members to do work for this committee.  It also discussed the
scope of the committee:  Fund raising should remain with the public
support committee.  Registration of trademarks should be handled by
the secretary.

It was noted that CNRI was granted a trademark on Python on March 23,
2004.  There is an agreement between the PSF and CNRI to transfer that
trademark to the PSF.

    RESOLVED, that a Public Relations (PR) Committee is formed, with Tim
      Parkin, Kevin Altis, Aahz, Barry Warsaw, Andrew Kuchling, and Steve
      Holden as initial members, and Steve Holden as the initial chairman
      and Vice President of Public Relations, that the PR Committee
      replaces and subsumes the activities of the previously disbanded Web
      Committee, and that the PR Committee shall:

      1. Facilitate and oversee the development and maintenance of the official
      informational, marketing, and advocacy materials for the Python
      programming language, including but not limited to those appearing
      on python.org, brochures, and press releases.

      2. Ensure that content and design for such materials is consistent and
      appropriate with the mission and requirements of the Python Software
      Foundation and the needs and ideals of the Python open source
      community.

      3. Develop and manage brand identities associated with the Python
      Software Foundation and Python.

      4. Actively promote Python in commercial, governmental and educational
      contexts, in order to facilitate the recruitment of new users and
      contributors to Python.

The motion passed 5-0-0.

7. Public Support Committee
###########################

Deibel moved that it is

    RESOLVED, that the Public Support Committee formed in August 2002
      shall continue under current membership and leadership, and that the
      committee's activities shall now be constrained to all aspects of
      fund raising for the PSF, including but not limited to (1) creation
      of fund raising messages, ads, and materials, (2) soliciting of
      donations from private and company contributors, and (3) management
      of fund raising infrastructure.

The motion passed by a 5-0-0 vote.

7. Miscellaneous
################

There was no progress on the contributor forms, reported Von L?wis.
Larry Rosen was asked to review changes to the Bylaws to support
electronic meetings, but did not report, reported Peters.  The
trademark for Python Software Foundation has not been registered yet,
Hylton reported.

10. Adjournment
###############

The meeting was adjorned at 18:00 GMT, the scheduled time for the end
of the meeting.