The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

May 11, 2004 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 17:00 GMT. Stephan Deibel
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Tim Peters, Guido van Rossum, Martin v. L?wis, Stephan
Deibel. A quorum was present. Martin was taking minutes.

2. Meeting minutes of past IRC meetings
#######################################

The April minutes where not available yet.

3. Reports
##########

The treasurer and PSC reports were emailed. Martin reported that
the Grant committee has created a mailing list, and had some
discussions, but had not made any decision, yet. He also reported
that we are still working with Larry Rosen on the contrib forms,
but have not made any progress recently. Tim reports no progress
on the changes to the bylaws.

4. Change of Principal Office and Headquarters
##############################################

Stephan moved that it is

    RESOLVED, that the principal office and official headquarters of the
      PSF shall be:

               Python Software Foundation

               1209 Orange Street

               Wilmington DE 19801

               USA

      The mailing address will remain:

               Python Software Foundation

               c/o Neal Norwitz

               1707 Sinclair Lane

               Crownsville, MD 21032-1925

               USA

The resolution passes with 4/0/0.

5. Accountancy
##############

Stephan then moves that it is

    RESOLVED, that the treasurer is authorized to pay an accountant
       $800 for preparing IRS Form 990 for 2003.

There was discussion on whether that is too expensive; Martin
suggested that this budget is approved and the actual expenses
are reviewed afterwards. The resolution passes with 4/0/0.

6. Removal of Opsware
#####################

Opsware has asked not to be listed as a sponsor member anymore.  The
board wondered what precisely this request means; it agreed that the
PSF can offer Opsware to remove their company logo from python.org if
they want to. The membership roll is public, so if they really don't
want to be listed as a sponsor member anymore, they should terminate
their membership. *Stephan will present these
options to them.*

7. Recognizing the Las Vegas User Group
#######################################

The Las Vegas Python User Group has asked that the PSF "recognizes"
them, because some library required such recognition. David Ascher has
asked that they draft actual text, to which request they have not
responded.  The board decided not to take any action in this matter.

8. Listing ILM as an emeritus member
####################################

ILM has sent a letter indicating that they wish to convert their
membership to emeritus; this has not been reflected on the website.
*Martin will correct the page.*

9. Other business
#################

Guido and Tim discussed recovering the 1023 form; they agree that
Tim's version of the document is close to the one we sent to the
IRS. It contains only the narrative parts, not the actual form.
We will never know for sure whether Guido's copy of the form is
the one that actually get sent to the IRS.

10. Adjournment
###############

There being no other business, the meeting is adjourned at 17:37 GMT.