The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Special Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Draft**

March 26, 2004 

A special meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF")
Board of Directors (the "Board") was held during PyCon, at the George
Washington University Cafritz Center, at noon.  Jeremy Hylton,
secretary of the PSF, presided.

1. Attendance
#############

This was the first meeting of the Board with the newly elected
members present.  The following members of the Board of Directors were
present at the meeting: David Ascher, Stephan Deibel, Steven Holden,
Hylton, Martin von L?wis, Tim Peters and Guido van Rossum.  A
quorum was present.  Hylton took minutes.

2. Appointment of officers
##########################

In earlier years, the Board appointed a president but not a
chairman of the board.  The Board elected to do both this year, but to
treat the position of president as a more honorific office than an
active one.

Stephan Deibel was appointed chairman of the board.  Guido van
Rossum was appointed president.  Neal Norwitz was appointed
treasurer.  Jeremy Hylton was appointed secretary.  All appointments
were unanimous.

The treasurer and secretary are both looking for help with their
work.  The Board expressed interest in appointing an assistant
treasurer or assistant secretary to involve more people in these
tasks.

3. Committee charters
#####################

The Board voted unanimously to re-appoint the Python Conference
Committee and the Public Support Committee.  (There was some
discussion about whether any action was necessary; regardless of the
need, it seemed appropriate.)  Marc-Andre Lemburg resigned as chair of
the Public Support Committee earlier, and Deibel was appointed chair
to replace him.

The Python Website Committee was dissolved by unanimous vote.  The
Board intends to create a new committee to manage the web site at its
next meeting.  The Board discussed creating a public relations
committee to replace the Python Website committee, but decided not to
create such a committee immediately.  One question was the distinction
between a public relations committee and the Public Support Committee.

Von L?wis volunteered to chair a new grant committee.  He will
present a motion for its creation at the next board meeting.

4. Corporate address
####################

The Board agreed that its official address should be changed from
its current address care-of Zope Corporation.  Deibel said he would
contact our registered agent to see if we can use them for our
official address.

5. Other action items
#####################

Von L?wis agreed to continue his work on the contributor
agreements.  Peters agreed to finish Lemburg's work on the bylaws; the
goal is to revise the bylaws to allow for electronic communications
and meetings.