The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

June 15, 2004 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 17:00 GMT. Stephan Deibel
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Jeremy Hylton, Guido van Rossum, Martin v. L?wis, Stephan Deibel,
Tim Peters. Neal Norwitz also attended the meeting. Martin was taking minutes.

2. Meeting minutes of past IRC meetings
#######################################

The April minutes where approved with 5/0/0. The May minutes were
approved with 4/0/1.

3. Reports
##########

The treasurer report was emailed. Martin reported no progress on contributor
agreements, and *will summarize the status of 
affairs to the board list.*
Tim reported no progress on bylaw changes for electronic voting.

4. Committee reports to the members
###################################

Marc-Andre Lemburg requested that committees give regular
reports. The board agreed that committees report atleast quarterly,
and *the PSF chairman will remind committee 
chairs of their reporting duties.*

The board also agreed to create a PSF wiki; this has been created
at `http://www.python.org/cgi-bin/moinmoin/PythonSoftwareFoundation <http://www.python.org/cgi-bin/moinmoin/PythonSoftwareFoundation>`_.
These wiki pages shall be used for communication within the committees.

David Ascher joined the meeting for the remaining agenda items.

5. Preferred License
####################

Aahz requested that the board suggests an official PSF policy on
a license Python applications and packages should use, so that they
better integrate with Python, and can be potentially included with
Python in the future. The board has discussed this question. Martin
summarized earlier discussion concluding that packages should *not*
use the Python license. Tim suggested that the board recommends a 
"no-hassle" license, such as BSD or MIT.

Guido suggested to recommend
one of Larry Rosen's licenses, e.g. the Academic Free License, instead.

David commented that this license is loaded. It is an interesting license,
and he likes it, but he doesn't think it is right for Python.

Jeremy asked whether the board needs to make a specific recommendation.
Martin said that if we cannot agree, we cannot make a recommendation.
David argued that we were doing so well: the board should show leadership,
and we know more about licenses than 99% of the contributors. Stephan
asked whether it would be sufficient just to recommend not using the GPL.
Guido said that general proliferation of licenses is a problem, as
many are mutually incompatible. Jeremy pointed out that Python "stood"
for something in the licensing world, for specifically not being GPL.

After further discussion, there was a general consensus that the board
would recommend MIT/BSD as a license for Pythonic software. 
*David will
draft a motion in this direction after the meeting.*

6. Budget for the treasurer
###########################

Neal Norwitz requested funds for a computer and a scanner, for 
processing PSF paperwork. The board agreed that it would be better
to grant a budget to the treasurer from which such expenses could
be paid. Stephan moved that it is

    RESOLVED, that we give Neal a budget for $2k for expenses as
      a treasurer.

The motion passed 6/0/0.

7. Adjournment
##############

Their being no further business, Stephan adjourned the meeting at 18:00GMT.