The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Januar 13, 2004 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 18:00 GMT. Guido
van Rossum, president of the Foundation and chairman of the Board,
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Guido van Rossum, Martin von L?wis, Tim Peters, Jeremy
Hylton, David Ascher, Marc-Andre Lemburg. A quorum was present. Martin
was taking minutes.

2. Meeting minutes of past IRC meetings
#######################################

The December minutes where not available yet.

3. Funding of PyCon Participants
################################

David Goodger had requested funding for travelling expenses to
PyCon as a sprint organizer, and Jeff Elkner had requested funding for
students who would like to participate. There was discussion on
whether funds should be granted. Guido did not want to give the
impression that we give money away to old buddies, but these were
valid cases. Jeremy agrees. Martin was opposed to funding students
unless they present something at the conference. David proposed
an alternative to direct funding: the silver sponsors should select
a sprint that their sponsor money should go to. Students applying
for grants should apply for a gopher position.

Marc-Andre proposed that sprint leaders get a free entry and
reimbursement of expenses up to $500. Martin is opposed, David
remarked that this proposal does not scale, Guido observed that
the proposal does not deal with a wealthy sprint leader who wants
to invite a poor sprinter. There was more discussion, after which
it was

    RESOLVED, that monies from the silver sponsorships be allocated to help defray
    costs associated with sponsor-selected sprints, up to a maximum of
    $500.  Each silver sponsor can choose what sprint to allocate the
    funds to.  The sprint leader and the sprint chair must agree on how
    the monies are to be disbursed.  Any reimbursement for travel or other
    expenses must be made based on submission of receipts.

The motion passed with 4/2/0. It is then further

    RESOLVED, that sprint leaders who organize and run sprints with at
    least two other full-time attendants get waived admission to the
    conference if they want it.

The motion passed with 6/0/0. Finally, it is

    RESOLVED, that students at accredited institutions can apply for a
    "gopher" position, which grants them free admission to the conference
    in exchange for administrative assistance of the conference, under the
    direction of the organizing committee.  The board grants the
    conference chair the authority to approve these requests according to
    the needs of the conference.

The motion passes 6/0/0. Guido will forward these decisions to Steve
Holden.

4. PyCon Member meeting
#######################

A member meeting should be held on the Thursday of PyCon, 5-7pm.
There is discussion whether snail mail invitations should be sent to
the members; we never did that before, but could do it this time.
Martin will take charge of organizing the meeting.

Jeremy requested that new members should apply for membership
before they are voted in, otherwise, they might never formally
apply.

All current board members, except for Thomas Wouters, will stand
again for the board. Guido has asked Dennis Allison whether he
is interested in filling Thomas' spot.

Marc-Andre asked whether email voting should be allowed for member
votes. Guido suggested that Marc-Andre should prepare a motion to
change the bylaws. Jeremy is concerned that we may need legal review
for such a change.

5. Adjournment
##############

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned.