<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    
    <!-- psf/records/board/minutes/2005-12-13 -->
    <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>
      Python.org
    </title>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <meta name="description" content="" />
    <meta name="author" content="" />
    <!-- le html5 shim, for ie6-8 support of html elements -->
    <!--[if lt ie 9]>
        <script src="http://html5shim.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/html5.js"></script>
        <![endif]-->
    <!-- le styles -->
    
    <script type="text/javascript"><!--
    // These variables are used by the web2py_ajax_init function in web2py_ajax.js (which is loaded below).
    var w2p_ajax_confirm_message = "Are you sure you want to delete this object?";
    var w2p_ajax_date_format = "%Y-%m-%d";
    var w2p_ajax_datetime_format = "%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S";
    //--></script>
<meta name="keywords" content="web2py, python, framework" /><meta name="copyright" content="Copyright 2011" /><meta name="description" content="a cool new app" /><meta name="generator" content="Web2py Web Framework" /><meta name="author" content="Your Name &lt;you@example.com&gt;" /><script src="/pythonorg/static/js/jquery.js" type="text/javascript"></script><link href="/pythonorg/static/css/calendar.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" /><script src="/pythonorg/static/js/calendar.js" type="text/javascript"></script><script src="/pythonorg/static/js/web2py.js" type="text/javascript"></script><link href="/pythonorg/static/css/web2py.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" /><script src="/pythonorg/static/bootswatch_files/jquery.toc.js" type="text/javascript"></script><link href="http://bootswatch.com/spacelab/bootstrap.min.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" /><link href="http://bootswatch.com/assets/css/bootstrap-responsive.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" /><link href="http://bootswatch.com/css/docs.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

    <style>
#content {padding-top: 0px; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;
 font-weight: 300;line-height: 22.5px;color: #333;}
#content-main img {max-width:200px; padding: 10px;}
#toc { padding: 10px; font-size: 12px; font-height:14px}
#toc ul { margin: 0; padding: 0; list-style: none; }
#toc li { padding: 5px 10px; }
#toc a { text-decoration: none; display: block; }
#toc .toc-h2 { padding-left: 10px;}
#toc .toc-h3 { padding-left: 20px; }
#toc .toc-active { background: #ddd; }
p, li {text-align: justify; line-height: 22.5px;}
#content h1, #content h2, #content h3, #content h4 { 
  padding-top:1em; padding-bottom: 0.5em; 
}
#rst-content h1 {font-size: 28px; text-align: left}
#rst-content h2 {font-size: 24px; text-align: left}
#rst-content h3 {font-size: 20px; text-align: left}
#rst-content h4 {font-size: 16px; text-align: left}
#rst-content pre {background-color: black; border: 0; color:white}
</style>
  </head>
  <body data-spy="scroll" data-target=".subnav" data-offset="50">
    <!-- navbar     ================================================== -->
    <div class="navbar navbar-fixed-top">
      
      <div id="flash" class="flash navbar-inner" style="text-align:center; vertical-align:middle; background: yellow; color:black"></div>
      <div class="navbar-inner">
        <div class="container">
          <a class="btn btn-navbar" data-toggle="collapse" data-target=".nav-collapse">
            <span class="icon-bar"> </span>
            <span class="icon-bar"> </span>
            <span class="icon-bar"> </span>
          </a>
          <!--a class="brand" href="http://bootswatch.com/">bootswatch</a-->
          <div class="nav-collapse">
	    <ul class="nav"><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index">Python.org</a></li><li class="dropdown"><a href="#" onclick="javascript:void(0);return false;">About</a><ul class="dropdown-menu"><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/about">Readme</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/about/gettingstarted">Getting Started</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/about/apps">Applications</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/about/success">Success Stories</a></li><li><a href="http://docs.python.org/license.html">License</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/about/help">Help</a></li></ul></li><li class="dropdown"><a href="#" onclick="javascript:void(0);return false;">News</a><ul class="dropdown-menu"><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/news">Readme</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/news/security">Security Advisory</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/news/releaseschedule">Release Schedule</a></li></ul></li><li class="dropdown"><a href="#" onclick="javascript:void(0);return false;">Learn</a><ul class="dropdown-menu"><li><a href="https://www.google.com/search?q=python&amp;btnG=Search+Books&amp;tbm=bks&amp;tbo=1#q=python+language&amp;hl=en&amp;tbo=1&amp;tbas=0&amp;tbs=vw:g,bkt:b,cdr:1,cd_min:2000,cd_max:2099&amp;tbm=bks&amp;source=lnt&amp;sa=X">Books</a></li><li><a href="http://pyvideo.org">Videos</a></li><li><a href="http://wiki.python.org/moin/BeginnersGuide">Beginner's Tutorials</a></li><li><a href="http://docs.python.org/library/">Libraries</a></li><li><a href="http://docs.python.org/devguide/">Core Develoment</a></li><li><a href="http://wiki.python.org/moin/">Wiki</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/dev/peps">PEPs</a></li></ul></li><li class="dropdown"><a href="#" onclick="javascript:void(0);return false;">Download</a><ul class="dropdown-menu"><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/download/windows">For Windows</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/download/mac">For Mac</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/download/source">For Linux</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/download/other">For other OS</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/download/releases">Old Releases</a></li></ul></li><li class="dropdown"><a href="#" onclick="javascript:void(0);return false;">Community</a><ul class="dropdown-menu"><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/community">Readme</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/community/lists">Mailing Lists</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/community/sigs">User Groups</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/community/workshops">Conferences</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/community/jobs">Jobs</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/community/awards">Awards</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/community/merchandise">Merchanise</a></li></ul></li><li class="dropdown"><a href="#" onclick="javascript:void(0);return false;">PSF</a><ul class="dropdown-menu"><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/psf">Readme</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/psf/about">About the PSF</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/psf/summary">Executive Summary</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/psf/mission">Mission Statement</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/psf/membership">Membership</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/psf/volunteer">Volunteer</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/psf/league">League</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/psf/committees">Committees</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/psf/bylaws">ByLaws</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/psf/reports">Reports</a></li><li><a href="http://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonSoftwareFoundation">Wiki</a></li><li><a href="http://pyfound.blogspot.com/">Weblog</a></li><li><a href="http://python.org/psf/press-release/">Press Releases</a></li><li><a href="/pythonorg/default/index/psf/forms">Forms</a></li></ul></li></ul>
	    
            <ul class="nav pull-right">
              <li>
                <a href="/pythonorg/default/edit/psf/records/board/minutes/2005-12-13">
                  [en] Edit
                  <i class="icon-share-alt icon-white"> </i>
                </a>
              </li>	      
            </ul>
	    
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="container">
      <!-- masthead ================================================== -->
      <header class="jumbotron subhead" id="overview">
	<img src="/pythonorg/static/images/logo.png" width="86px" align="left"/>
        <h1>
          python<small>.org</small>
        </h1>
        <p class="lead">
          The Programming Language of the Future
        </p>
      </header>
      <!-- content ================================================== -->
      <section id="content">
        <div class="page-header">
          <!--h1>
            typography
          </h1-->
        </div>
        <!-- headings & paragraph copy -->
        <div class="row">
          <div class="span8" id="content-main">
	    
<div id="rst-content">
  
  <p>The Python Software Foundation</p>
<p>Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors</p>
<p>December 13, 2005</p>
<p>A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat beginning at 18:04 UTC, 13
December 2005.  Stephan Deibel presided at the meeting.</p>
<div class="section" id="attendance">
<h1>1   Attendance</h1>
<p>The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Stephan Deibel, Martin von L?wis, Steve Holden, Andrew
Kuchling, Tim Peters, Jeremy Hylton (arrived at 18:11), and David
Ascher (arrived at 18:25).  Also in attendance were Kurt B. Kaiser
(Treasurer), Neal Norwitz (Assistant Treasurer), and David Goodger
(Assistant Secretary).  D. Goodger prepared these minutes.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="minutes-of-past-meetings">
<h1>2   Minutes of Past Meetings</h1>
<p>The November 2005 minutes were approved by a 4-0-1 vote.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="status-of-past-action-items">
<h1>3   Status of Past Action Items</h1>
<p>The following are action items carried forward from the November 2005
meeting, as highlighted in the minutes (Section 3, Status of Past
Action Items):</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Originally from September 2005, Section 4, Donor Levels: S. Deibel will add the topic of &quot;Donor Levels&quot; to the agenda of a future meeting, and may begin discussions via email before that.     Status: <strong>carried forward</strong>.</li>
<li>Originally from September 2005, Section 8, Conference Committee Status Report: A. Kuchling will send a copy of the PyCon 2006 contract to the Treasurer.     Status: <strong>done</strong>.</li>
<li>Originally from September 2005, Section 9, Grants Committee: M. von L?wis will verify whether Brian Zimmer's grant invoice is the one previously discussed (i.e. a reduced amount of work, and a reduced payment).     Status: <strong>carried forward</strong>.</li>
<li>Originally from September 2005, Section 10.1, Trademarks &amp; The .com Domain: N. Norwitz will ask the lawyer about the python.com domain.     Status: <strong>in progress</strong>.  N. Norwitz has begun discussions with the lawyer.  He reports that he is supposed to talk to the lawyer again at some point, but it doesn't seem like our chances are great of getting python.com.</li>
<li>Originally from October 2005, Section 4, Public Support Committee: D. Goodger will pursue web page and installer donation link ideas.     Status: <strong>carried forward</strong>.</li>
<li>Originally from October 2005, Section 5, Ubuntu Development Meeting: D. Goodger will ask if Ubuntu wants to become a PSF sponsor or donor.     Status: <strong>done</strong>.  D. Goodger asked Mark Shuttleworth if Ubuntu would like to become a PSF sponsor or donor.  There is no response yet.  Followup required: Mark Shuttleworth (Ubuntu/Canonical) on PSF sponsorship or donation.</li>
<li>Originally from October 2005, Section 5, Ubuntu Development Meeting: Add &quot;swag for events&quot; to future agenda [D. Goodger].     Status: <strong>carried forward</strong>.</li>
<li>Originally from October 2005, Section 7, Reserve Funds: K. Kaiser will send a reserve fund investment proposal to the PSF-board mailing list.     Status: <strong>carried forward</strong>.</li>
</ul>
<p>The following action items originated with the November 2005 meeting,
as highlighted in the minutes:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Section 4, Python.org Redesign: To do [S. Holden]:    - get the new production system to run on Mac OS X;  - detail which parts of the current content have been transformed for the new system and which parts still require conversion;  - complete the documentation so that webmaster team members can use the new system rather than the old one.    Status: <strong>in progress</strong>.  See <a class="reference external" href="#python-org-redesign">Python.org Redesign</a>  below.</li>
<li>Section 6, Funding of PyCon Attendees: A. Kuchling will discuss attendee funding with the conference committee and make a proposal to the board.     Status: <strong>done</strong>.  See <a class="reference external" href="#funding-of-pycon-attendees">Funding of PyCon Attendees</a> below.</li>
<li>Section 7, Public Support Committee: D. Ascher will ask Bram Cohen (BitTorrent) about PSF sponsorship.     Status: <strong>done</strong>; no answer so far.  Followup required: Bram Cohen (BitTorrent) on PSF sponsorship or donation.</li>
<li>Section 8, Trademark Policy: D. Ascher will probably work with ActiveState's legal person on trademark policy.     Status: <strong>carried forward</strong>.</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="id1">
<h1>4   Python.org Redesign</h1>
<p>S. Holden reported that he has been in touch with Tim Parkin: he needs
to finalize the build process, and this work has been delayed behind
other paying jobs.  Work is progressing on a system to track which
parts of hte site has been converted, and Tim has asked A. Kuchling
about putting a test server up.  A. Kuchling replied that we can
certainly create a test server, but Tim hasn't asked him to do
anything in particular.  D. Goodger volunteered to help with Mac OS X,
and commented that the redesign should be up &amp; running before PyCon.
S. Holden replied that it <em>must</em> be up before PyCon, but there isn't
much to do now.  S. Holden said he would speak with Tim
Parkin and they would contact A. Kuchling about setting up a
publicly-visible test server. Then help could be recruited from the
pydotorg list.</p>
<p>D. Goodger suggested that the PSF board set a deadline, to push from
our end, and not wait on Tim.  A. Kuchling agreed, suggesting it might
also stir the pydotorg list participants into action.  S. Deibel
remarked that it would be great to have the site up and running, but
it seems like time is short and there are probably a lot of snags.
D. Goodger replied that we &quot;won't know if we don't try ... let's get
it off Tim's plate and onto ours&quot;.  S. Deibel agreed.</p>
<p>S. Holden remarked that Tim Parkin has probably done more work on the
system than he had originally anticipated; we should look at taking
the SVN repository in to the web server.  D. Goodger suggested a
weekend IRC sprint; others agreed, and S. Holden said that he
would see if Tim Parkin is available for an IRC sprint: &quot;A SWAT team
approach might move things along.&quot;</p>
<p>S. Holden reported that Tim Parkin is anxious to get formal acceptance
of his work so he can access the final payment.  S. Deibel replied
that it can't be accepted until it's deployed in some form -- once we
have something in our hands, then he would be OK with paying.
S. Holden asked if payment can be made once the source is in our SVN
repository.  D. Goodger suggested SVN plus at least a test/partial
deployment.  S. Deibel pointed out that there should be enough
documentation so that work can be picked up by others.
S. Holden said that he would be responsible for making sure
that documentation is available for the new python.org system.
S. Deibel stated that we need sources, a test deployment, a map/list
of parts that have been translated and that need manual work, and
documentation.</p>
<p>J. Hylton asekd if the original contract had a statement of work.
S. Deibel confirmed that there was (and shortly after the meeting
ended, he posted a link to the original proposal:
<a class="reference external" href="http://wiki.python.org/moin/WebsiteRedesignProposal">http://wiki.python.org/moin/WebsiteRedesignProposal</a>).</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="conference-committee">
<h1>5   Conference Committee</h1>
<p>A. Kuchling posted a status report to the PSF-board mailing list just
prior to the meeting:</p>
<blockquote>
<p>PyCon status, Dec. 13 2005</p>
<p>The program is mostly complete:</p>
<p><a class="reference external" href="http://wiki.python.org/moin/PyCon2006/Talks">http://wiki.python.org/moin/PyCon2006/Talks</a></p>
<p><a class="reference external" href="http://wiki.python.org/moin/PyCon2006/Tutorials">http://wiki.python.org/moin/PyCon2006/Tutorials</a></p>
<p><a class="reference external" href="http://wiki.python.org/moin/PyCon2006/Sprints">http://wiki.python.org/moin/PyCon2006/Sprints</a></p>
<p>The talks have been chosen and announced, but the actual schedule
hasn't been posted by the Program Chair yet.  I am not happy about
this and have been badgering him about it; we'll set the schedule
in an IRC meeting next year.</p>
<p>There are no keynote speakers yet, beyond GvR.  It's increasingly
probable we won't have any other keynotes.  (I'm OK with that,
frankly, not being a big fan of keynote speeches.)</p>
<p>There's still room for sprints, so feel free to add sprints for
your project.  I'll be posting a call for sprints/call for BoFs
soon.</p>
<p>Registration is now open.  Cost is $185/125 student, a $10
increase.  Early bird registration ends Dec. 31st, after which
prices go up, so if you're going, please register.  Current
registration: 27 attendees (12 tutorial registrations), but it's
still early; most will be last-minute.  Break-even figure is 351
attendees.  I don't have current hotel registration numbers.</p>
<p>Sponsorship target of $16K reached.  (Sponsorships are still
available, if you know any possibilities.)</p>
<p>Jeff Rush is working on negotiating lower food costs.  No results
yet, but any reduction will make a significant change.</p>
<p>Publicity suggestions are welcome.</p>
<p>I can answer questions on psf-board or at the meeting.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>D. Ascher asked who the sprint coordinator was; he wanted to know who
to tell the Django folks to talk to.  A. Kuchling replied that Jeff
Rush is probably the closest to being sprint coordinator.  D. Goodger
stated that sprints are more-or-less self-coordinating; just have them
add to the wiki page.  J. Hylton replied &quot;As a former sprint
coordinator, I'd say it would be good to have someone to actually
coordinate, answer questions, etc.&quot;</p>
<p>N. Norwitz noted that we don't have all keynote slots filled, and
asked if he should try to ask Andy Hertzfeld.  A. Kuchling replied
that &quot;if we don't find anyone, that's OK with me.  If we find someone,
that's <em>also</em> OK with me...  We'll probably have a lightning talk
plenary session on the Sunday.&quot;</p>
<div class="section" id="id2">
<h2>5.1   Funding of PyCon Attendees</h2>
<blockquote>
RESOLVED, that the Python Conference Committee is given additional
funds of up to $6000 to pay attendance costs for individuals
attending PyCon 2006, at the discretion of the Conference
Committee.</blockquote>
<p>Approved 7-0-0.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="psf-member-meeting">
<h1>6   PSF Member Meeting</h1>
<p>S. Deibel stated that we need to begin preparing for the PSF member
meeting in February at PyCon, and asked what needs to get
done/prepared.</p>
<ol class="upperalpha simple" start="19">
<li>Holden and M. von L?wis replied:</li>
</ol>
<ul class="simple">
<li>announce the meeting,</li>
<li>call for Board nominations,</li>
<li>prepare an agenda,</li>
<li>prepare proxy forms with both board and new member nominations (plus board-approved sponsor members),</li>
<li>send out email and snail-mailed invitations &amp; proxy forms,</li>
</ul>
<p>J. Hylton suggested that we find a company that can send the snailmail
given templates and addresses.  S. Deibel agreed, and noted that
usually it's the secretary that does this, but last year things almost
didn't happen in time, so it would be good to assign tasks clearly.
J. Hylton took on the task of finding someone to send out
member meeting notices &amp; proxy forms. M. von L?wis
volunteered to ensure that the necessary steps are taken for the
member meeting.</p>
<p>J. Hylton noted that we can't send mail out until we have an agenda.
S. Deibel replied that the agenda will probably be very similar to
last year.  J. Hylton suggested that we should start the ball rolling
on nominations and the like; the actual proxy form with votes may be
the biggest source of delay.  S. Deibel volunteered to send
email to psf-members to ask people to do new member nominations.</p>
<p>A. Kuchling and M. von L?wis noted that the minutes for the member
meetings of 2005, 2003, and 2002 are missing.  J. Hylton
pledged to complete the minutes for the 2005 PSF member meeting. (He
posted a draft to psf-members on March 27, but never wrote up an
official version.)  S. Deibel noted that the 2003 meeting minutes may
never have been done.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="psf-bof-sessions">
<h1>7   PSF BoF Sessions</h1>
<p>S. Deibel reported that there are currently two PSF-related
birds-of-a-feather (BoF) sessions scheduled for PyCon, and asked who
is going to deliver the talks and run the discussions.  A. Kuchling
noted that the two are:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>a PSF Grant Program BoF (tips on what the PSF is looking for), and</li>
<li>a Google Summer of Code BoF (what was done, the outcomes, and what will happen next year).</li>
</ul>
<p>A. Kuchling volunteered to run the Summer of Code BoF if nobody else
was forthcoming, and noted that the subject would be regarding what
the PSF did for the SoC, not about the SoC in general.  J. Hylton
suggested that Chris DiBona and Greg Stein be asked if they want to
participate in the SoC BoF.  A. Kuchling noted that if Chris DiBona is
coming to PyCon, he and a PSF director would probably work well.
A. Kuchling promised to write to Chris DiBona and Greg Stein
and ask about their attendance at PyCon and possible BoF
participation. N. Norwitz thought that neither Chris nor Greg is
coming to pycon; J. Hylton noted that &quot;no one at work is excited by
the location&quot;.  D. Goodger noted: &quot;the location: it's a hotel; same
everywhere&quot;.</p>
<p>M. von L?wis agreed to lead the Grants BoF.  He envisions a discussion
on &quot;what the PSF wants to pay for&quot;, but suggested that the PSF should
really decide what we <em>are</em> looking for, either before PyCon, or
during the BoF.  A. Kuchling envisioned that the subject of the BoF
would be &quot;how to write proposals that aren't awful&quot;, not &quot;the PSF
wants to fund X, Y, and Z&quot;, but left the subject up to M. von L?wis.
A. Kuchling suggested, and M. von L?wis agreed, to see if the
grant recipients (Greg Wilson, Brian Zimmer, and/or Ilya Etingof) will
be at PyCon, and ask them to report on what they've done.</p>
<p>J. Hylton noted that he thought we could give a lot of helpful advice
to people on how to write a successful proposal.  S. Diebel stated
that he planned to attend both BoFs.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="adjournment">
<h1>8   Adjournment</h1>
<ol class="upperalpha simple" start="19">
<li>Deibel adjourned the meeting at 19:04 UTC.</li>
</ol>
</div>

  <br/><br/>
</div>
<script>
  jQuery(function(){
    jQuery('.system-message').hide();
    jQuery('#rst-content p').each(function(i){
      if(jQuery(this).html().lastIndexOf('Published:',0)===0)
        jQuery(this).css('text-align','right').css('color','#aaa');
    });
  });
</script>


          </div>
	  
          <div class="span4">
	    <form class="well form-search" action="/pythonorg/default/search">
              <input type="text" name="keywords" class="input-medium search-query">
	      <button type="submit" class="btn">Search</button>
	    </form>
	    
            <div class="well" id="download">
	      <a href="/pythonorg/default/sync/download">Download Now!</a>
	      (<a href="http://wiki.python.org/moin/Python2orPython3">2.x or 3.x?</a>)
	    </div>
	    
	    
            <div class="well" id="toc"></div>
            <script>
	      jQuery(function(){jQuery('#toc').toc({
	      'selectors': 'h1,h2,h3',
	      'container': '#rst-content',
	      'smoothScrolling': true,
	      'prefix': 'toc',
	      'highlightOnScroll': true,
	      });});
            </script>	    
	    
	    <div class="well" id="python uses">
	      <h3>Using python for</h3>
	      <ul>
		<li>
		  <a href="http://wiki.python.org/moin/WebProgramming">Web</a>
		</li>
		<li>
		  <a href="http://wiki.python.org/moin/DatabaseProgramming">Database</a>
		</li>
		<li>
		  <a href="http://wiki.python.org/moin/GuiProgramming">GUI</a>
		</li>
		<li>
		  <a href="/pythonorg/default/index/about/apps">Networking</a>
		</li>
		<li>
		  <a href="/pythonorg/default/index/about/apps">Science</a>
		</li>
		<li>
		  <a href="/pythonorg/default/index/community/sigs/current/edu-sig">CS Education</a>
		</li>
		<li>
		  <a href="/pythonorg/default/index/about/apps">Games</a>
		</li>
		<li>
		  <a href="/pythonorg/default/index/about/apps">More</a>
		</li>
	      </ul>
	    </div>

<script charset="utf-8" src="http://widgets.twimg.com/j/2/widget.js"></script>
<script>
new TWTR.Widget({
  version: 2,
  type: 'profile',
  rpp: 4,
  interval: 30000,
  width: 'auto',
  height: 300,
  theme: {
    shell: {
      background: '#f2f2f2',
      color: '#ffffff'
    },
    tweets: {
      background: '#ffffff',
      color: '#3686b4',
      links: '#262626'
    }
  },
  features: {
    scrollbar: false,
    loop: false,
    live: false,
    behavior: 'all'
  }
}).render().setUser('ThePSF').start();
</script>
          </div>	
	  
        </div>
      </section><br /><br /><br /><br />
      <!-- footer ================================== -->
      <footer class="footer">
	<span class="auth_navbar"> [ <a href="/pythonorg/default/user/login?_next=/pythonorg/default/sync">Login</a> | <a href="/pythonorg/default/user/retrieve_username?_next=/pythonorg/default/sync">Forgot username?</a> | <a href="/pythonorg/default/user/request_reset_password?_next=/pythonorg/default/sync">Lost password?</a> ] </span>
        <p class="pull-right">
	  Copyright © 1990-2012, Python Software Foundation
          (<a href="/pythonorg/default/sync/about/legal">Legal Statements</a>)
        </p>
      </footer>
    </div>
    <!-- /container -->
    
    <!-- placed at the end of the document so the pages load faster -->
    <script src="/pythonorg/static/js/jquery.quovolver.js"></script>
    <script src="/pythonorg/static/bootswatch_files/bootstrap-dropdown.js"></script>
    <script src="/pythonorg/static/bootswatch_files/bootstrap-scrollspy.js"></script>
    <script src="/pythonorg/static/bootswatch_files/bootstrap-collapse.js"></script>
    <script src="/pythonorg/static/bootswatch_files/bootstrap-tooltip.js"></script>
    <script>
        jQuery(function(){
	  jQuery('.nav>li>a').each(function(){
	    if(jQuery(this).parent().find('ul').length)
	      jQuery(this).attr({'class':'dropdown-toggle','data-toggle':'dropdown'}).append('<b class="caret"></b>');
          });	
        });
      </script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/pythonorg/static/js/jquerytypewriter.js"></script>
    <script src="/pythonorg/static/js/share.js?static=%2Fpythonorg%2Fstatic%2Fimages"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript"> var _gaq = _gaq || []; _gaq.push(['_setAccount', 'unknown']); _gaq.push(['_trackPageview']); (function() { var ga = document.createElement('script'); ga.type = 'text/javascript'; ga.async = true; ga.src = ('https:' == document.location.protocol ? 'https://ssl' : 'http://www') + '.google-analytics.com/ga.js'; var s = document.getElementsByTagName('script')[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(ga, s); })(); </script> 
  </body>
</html>
    
