The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

February 8, 2005 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 1:00 EST. Stephan Deibel
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: David Ascher, Jeremy Hylton, Tim Peters, Stephan Deibel, and
Guido van Rossum.  Neal Norwitz and Kurt Kaiser also attended the
meeting.  Hylton took minutes.

2. Meeting minutes approved
###########################

The January minutes were approved by a 4-0-1 vote. 

*Hylton will circulate draft minutes for the
Dec. 2004 meeting.*

3. Discussion of action items
#############################

Norwitz reported that Google stock received as a gift in Dec. 2004
was sold at $200.66 a share.  He also reported that Tim Parkin's
company was paid per the January resolution ("Web Site Redesign") and
that Active Grid paid a sponsor member fee.

4. Assistant treasurer
######################

Kurt Kaiser was appointed assistant treasurer by unanimous vote.

5. Member meeting
#################

Deibel will run the members meeting at PyCon. 

*Hylton will send meeting notices and proxy
forms.  He will also compile a list of members who have not voted at
the last two meetings and suggest that they become emeritus
members.*

Deibel will also run the "What is the PSF" session at PyCon.  It
will be an informal session with no specific preparation needed.

6. Change to psf-board mailing list policy
##########################################

The board discussed whether people other that board members or
officers should be subscribed to the psf-board mailing list.  The
foundation lawyer raised a concern about privileged communication with
the board, because regular members were also on that list.  There was
also some concern that sensitive communicates might want to be limited
to current board members.

RESOLVED that subscribers to the psf-board mailing list be officers
or directors of the corporation or the corporation counsel.a

Passed 5-0-0. 

*Van Rossum updated the mailing list
membership.*

7. Discussion of board size
###########################

The board discussed whether the foundation would benefit from
having a larger board, specifically because there are more candidates
for the new board than there are positions on the board.  The
membership is responsible for setting the board membership, but the
board could make a recommendation.

There was not clear consensus on the issue, although a few board
members expressed interest in keeping as many active board members as
possible.  If a motion is to be voted on in the meeting, it should be
included in the meeting notice and proxy forms.

8. Miscellaneous
################

Ascher reported on a Perl Foundation meeting that he was invited to
attend.  Van Rossum reported on some tensions on the python IRC
channel.  Hylton suggested that the PSF designate one of the officers
as the group contact at freenode.  Hylton mentioned that we need to
determine what acceptable use of the Python trademark is and begin
policing it, but there was no time for further discussion.

Adjournment.
############

The meeting was adjourned at 2:06 p.m. EST.