The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

March 8, 2005 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 18:00 GMT. Stephan Deibel
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Martin v. L?wis, Stephan Deibel, Steve Holden, and Tim Peters.
David Ascher joined the meeting at 18:20, Jeremy Hylton at 18:33.
Kurt Kaiser also attended the meeting.  Martin took minutes.

2. Meeting minutes approved
###########################

The February minutes were approved with a 3-0-2 vote. The
December minutes were still missing.

3. Member meeting
#################

Tim reported that Facundo Batista is interested in being a member,
but has neither been nominated, nor did he send an application. Tim
will make sure that both happen. Stephan reported that Jim Hugunin
is also interested, but needs to check with his employer's lawyers
to make sure there are no conflicts.

Jeremy will send out the meeting notice to the users in this week;
he will also work out a list of members to be converted to emeritus
status. On the final proxy form, the actual text of proposed motions
is required.

Stephan will make sure summaries/biographies of the new sponsor
and nominated members will be available at the meeting

3. Contrib forms
################

Martin reports that the forms are ready to go. The one remaining
isssue is the waiver for small contributions. Stephan answers that
the concern of Marc-Andre Lemburg still needs an answer, i.e. what
to do about past contributions.

Stephan also said that he considers the proposed solution of
waiving the form for contributions with less than 25 lines a reasonable
approach. David responded that he thinks this is bizarre notion from
a legal POV which he expected has no precedent. Kurt pointed to the
`official FSF statement <http://www.gnu.org/prep/maintain/maintain.html#Copyright-Papers>`_ on small contributions.
*Martin will draft a policy, and ask Larry Rosen to clarify
the issue of past contributions*.

Adjournment.
############

The meeting was adjourned at 18:51 GMT.