The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Special Meeting of the Board of Directors 

March 14, 2008

A special meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held at PyCon 2008 in Rosemont/Chicago at 18:30 CDT
(23:30 UTC), 14 March 2008.  David Goodger prepared these minutes.

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Election of Officers <#election-of-officers>`_

- `3   Motion to Dissolve the Conference Committee <#motion-to-dissolve-the-conference-committee>`_

- `4   Discussion <#discussion>`_

- `5   Schedule for Board Meetings on IRC <#schedule-for-board-meetings-on-irc>`_

- `6   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Brett Cannon, Stephan Deibel, David Goodger, Raymond
Hettinger, Steve Holden, Martin von L?wis, and James Tauber.  Also in
attendance were Neil Norwitz and Guido van Rossum.

`2   Election of Officers <#id2>`_
----------------------------------

The following Officers were elected by acclamation: 

- **President**:            Guido van Rossum

- **Secretary**:            David Goodger

- **Treasurer**:            Kurt Kaiser

- **Assistant Treasurer**:  Raymond Hettinger

- **Chairman**:             Steve Holden

`3   Motion to Dissolve the Conference Committee <#id3>`_
---------------------------------------------------------

M. von L?wis moved: 

    **WHEREAS** the role of the Conference Committee is to advise the
    PyCon Chair and the PyCon organizing committee, and

    **WHEREAS** this role is effectively being filled by the PSF Board
    of Directors, be it

    **RESOLVED**, that the Conference Committee be dissolved, and that
    the PyCon Chair be an Officer of the Foundation.

Approved unanimously (7-0-0).

`4   Discussion <#id4>`_
------------------------

The following topics were discussed: 

- Sponsor membership fee increase?

- Non-participating members.

- What should we do with the PSF's money?    - We need a budget.  - G. van Rossum: Grants to core development?  - B. Cannon: Use the money for core sprints?  Around 20 people.      G. van Rossum: Combine a sprint with EuroPython?      Regarding a possible PSF-sponsored core sprint at EuroPython, S. Holden will contact Laura Creighton for information.  - S. Holden: Have two in-person Board meetings per year? Teleconferencing/videoconferencing were discussed as options.

- We should promote the Software Carpentry project.

- The new PSF Board members (J. Tauber & R. Hettinger) were informed of the infrastructure (psf-board mailing list, monthly IRC meeting, etc.).

- D. Goodger will inform the new members of their election, and invite them to join the psf-members list.

- The Board agrees that EuroPython is worthwhile supporting.

- The &quot;PyCon&quot; mark should be used as a &quot;brand&quot; for national-level conferences.

`5   Schedule for Board Meetings on IRC <#id5>`_
------------------------------------------------

The Board agreed to reschedule the monthly PSF Board of Directors IRC
meetings to 12:00 (noon) in the U.S. Eastern time zone (regardless of
standard time or daylight saving time).  Meetings will remain on the
second Monday of each month.

`6   Adjournment <#id6>`_
-------------------------

The meeting adjourned at 19:20 CDT.