The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors 

December 21, 2009

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat beginning at 17:15 UTC, 21
December 2009 (continued from `the meeting of December 14, 2009 <../2009-12-14/>`_).  Steve Holden presided at the meeting.  Pat
Campbell prepared the minutes.

All votes are reported in the form &quot;*Y-N-A*&quot; (*in favor ? opposed ?
abstentions*; e.g. &quot;5-1-2&quot; means &quot;5 in favor, 1 opposed, and 2
abstentions&quot;).

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#minutes-of-past-meetings>`_

- `3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#votes-taken-between-meetings>`_

- `4   Status of Past Action Items <#status-of-past-action-items>`_

- `5   PSF Budget for 2010 <#psf-budget-for-2010>`_

- `6   PSF Community Service Award Nominations for 2009-4th Qtr. <#psf-community-service-award-nominations-for-2009-4th-qtr>`_

- `7   &quot;Python Swallowed Whole&quot; Book Project <#python-swallowed-whole-book-project>`_

- `8   Funding for Python Miro Community Website <#funding-for-python-miro-community-website>`_

- `9   PSF Members Meeting at PyCon 2010 <#psf-members-meeting-at-pycon-2010>`_

- `10   IRC Policy <#irc-policy>`_

- `11   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Brett Cannon, Steve Holden, Martin v. L?wis, David Mertz,
Tim Peters, and Jeff Rush.  Also in attendance were David Goodger
(Secretary), Kurt Kaiser (Treasurer), and Pat Campbell (Administrator).

`2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#id2>`_
--------------------------------------

No action was taken at this meeting.

`3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#id3>`_
------------------------------------------

There were no votes taken since the last Board meeting on 14 December.

`4   Status of Past Action Items <#id4>`_
-----------------------------------------

See `the minutes of December 14, 2009 <../2009-12-14/>`_.

`5   PSF Budget for 2010 <#id5>`_
---------------------------------

K. Kaiser: &quot;We are all agreed, I think that we need a budget and that
it should compare with previous years.&quot;

S. Holden: &quot;The question is, are we prepared to commit to being guided
by the budget figures I prepared?&quot;

K. Kaiser: &quot;We have a page on the PSF website. I'll see to it that it
is up-to-date with financials and tax filings.&quot;

S. Holden: &quot;The point is first of all to start planning. Then we can
improve our planning. The accountants [Wendroff] should be providing a
much better picture of our position on a monthly basis this year.&quot;

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF adopt the budget proposed in
    `http://spreadsheets.google.com/ccc?key=0Ags6GY_6T6qqdEJySEQ0VHBoaWlDWEJhZk9mZGhzNHc&hl=en <http://spreadsheets.google.com/ccc?key=0Ags6GY_6T6qqdEJySEQ0VHBoaWlDWEJhZk9mZGhzNHc&hl=en>`_
    to guide its operations in 2010.

Approved, 4-0-2. 

[113] K. Kaiser will update the PSF website to reflect the
changes on financial & tax filing data.

[114] K. Kaiser will archive the 2010 Budget.

`6   PSF Community Service Award Nominations for 2009-4th Qtr. <#id6>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Two Nominees for the 2009 - 4th quarter PSF Community Service Award
were selected.

*[Details temporarily omitted from the public minutes, to be restored
after the announcement.]*

[115] P. Campbell will mail out awards to 4th quarter
recipients of the PSF Community Service Award for 2009.

[116] S. Holden will write a congratulatory letter to the 4th
quarter PSF Community Service Award recipients for 2009 and write a
PSF blog entry about their contributions to the community.

[117] D. Goodger will update the PSF Wiki website to reflect
the change in dollar amount (cash award changed to $500) allocated for
a PSF Community Service Award recipient.

`7   &quot;Python Swallowed Whole&quot; Book Project <#id7>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------

S. Holden: &quot;&quot;Python Swallowed Whole&quot; is a collaborative project with
Pearson's to get up to 30 distinguished Pythonistas to contribute a
chapter for a book about Python. R.  Hettinger has prepared a list of
potential contributors.&quot;

D. Mertz: &quot;I've talked with R. Hettinger about the [book] idea.&quot; 

T. Peters: &quot;Is the project asking the PSF for something tangible?&quot; 

D. Mertz: &quot;R. Hettinger's idea is to &quot;honor&quot; the work of a bunch of
core developers by having them write about what they've done.&quot;

S. Holden: &quot;So this discussion was more of a heads-up than anything
else. It would be good to have all directors' support.&quot;

`8   Funding for Python Miro Community Website <#id8>`_
-------------------------------------------------------

S. Holden: &quot;Can we see a tangible or intangible benefit to the
Python community?&quot;

M. von L?wis: &quot;I think we shouldn't do that. They start with &quot;the
objective of this grant is to reduce the difficulty of finding
and disseminating videos related to Python,&quot; I disagree with the
preposition: Python videos are not difficult to find.&quot;

D. Mertz: &quot;I don't see enough benefit to fund it at levels like they
are requesting.&quot;

J. Rush: &quot;I agree, just finding them [Python videos] is not hard but
I'd hoped it would also critique or filter them too.&quot;

S. Holden: &quot;It's not difficult to find Python videos, but it's not
easy to find a specific video. It would be nice to see that work of
tagging and indexing done.&quot;

M. von L?wis: &quot;I think we should ask the members whether they think
that a &quot;Miro community&quot; is something useful to have.&quot;

Further discussion deferred to the PSF members email list.

`9   PSF Members Meeting at PyCon 2010 <#id9>`_
-----------------------------------------------

Further preparations are being made by the board for the PSF members
meeting to be held at PyCon 2010.  All nominations and deadlines will
be listed on the wiki page.

`10   IRC Policy <#id10>`_
--------------------------

B. Cannon initiated a discussion about the possibilities of an IRC
policy. Due to time constraints on the board meeting, this discussion
was deferred to email.

`11   Adjournment <#id11>`_
---------------------------

S. Holden adjourned the meeting at 18:15 UTC.