The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors 

December 20, 2010

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat beginning at 16:00 UTC, 20
December 2010. Steve Holden presided at the meeting. Pat Campbell
prepared the minutes.

All votes are reported in the form &quot;*Y-N-A*&quot; (*in favor ? opposed ?
abstentions*; e.g. &quot;5-1-2&quot; means &quot;5 in favor, 1 opposed, and 2
abstentions&quot;).

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#minutes-of-past-meetings>`_

- `3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#votes-taken-between-meetings>`_

- `4   Treasurer Report <#treasurer-report>`_

- `5   Progress Report <#progress-report>`_- `5.1   Communication Status <#communication-status>`_  - `5.2   Core Development Tasks <#core-development-tasks>`_  - `5.3   HAM WebPages/Links <#ham-webpages-links>`_  - `5.4   Infrastructure Committee <#infrastructure-committee>`_  - `5.5   Marketing Material <#marketing-material>`_  - `5.6   Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront <#moving-pypi-to-amazon-cloudfront>`_  - `5.7   PyCon US Website <#pycon-us-website>`_  - `5.8   Sprint Committee <#sprint-committee>`_  - `5.9   Trademarks Committee <#trademarks-committee>`_

- `6   Pre-Finance & Underwrite Python Brochure <#pre-finance-underwrite-python-brochure>`_

- `7   Fund 2010 Summer pyGames Competition <#fund-2010-summer-pygames-competition>`_

- `8   2010-Q4 Community Service Award Nominations <#q4-community-service-award-nominations>`_

- `9   Other Business <#other-business>`_- `9.1   Indebtedness to D. Goodger <#indebtedness-to-d-goodger>`_  - `9.2   Message of Seasonal Cheer! <#message-of-seasonal-cheer>`_

- `10   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Raymond Hettinger, Steve Holden, Marc-Andre Lemburg, Martin
v. L?wis, David Mertz, Jesse Noller, Tim Peters, Allison Randal, Jeff
Rush, James Tauber, and Gloria Willadsen. Also in attendance were
Kurt Kaiser (Treasurer), and Pat Campbell (Secretary & Administrator).

`2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#id2>`_
--------------------------------------

The 15 November 2010 Board meeting minutes were voted on and approved. 

Approved, 8-0-3.

`3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#id3>`_
------------------------------------------

There were no votes taken since the last Board meeting held on 15
November 2010.

`4   Treasurer Report <#id4>`_
------------------------------

The monthly Treasurer's Report was provided to Board members by K.
Kaiser prior to the Board meeting and produced from Quickbooks Online
where the year 2009 has come to a close.

The treasurer's focus for the beginning of the year 2011 starts out with
PSF Sponsor Member invoices:

&quot;My focus is currently on PSF Sponsor Member invoices, AR and AP
reduction, and implementation of the financial aspects of the Associate
Member program. With respect to the latter, I've begun setting up a new
PayFlow Pro account using our new processor, since MatrixMaxx can't
interface to our existing PayFlow account.&quot;

`5   Progress Report <#id5>`_
-----------------------------

The following board reports were submitted to the board mailing list
one week prior to this month's meeting. Please see a summary of each
board report listed below and a possible board discussion to follow:

`5.1   Communication Status <#id6>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

D. Hellmann, Communication Officer, reported continued activities from
last month, by saying:

- Paulo Nuin is working on a post about the PyPI mirroring project.

- Engelbert Gruber is working on interview questions for a post about the new PyCon web site.

As far as new activities for the month are concerned, he reported: 

- Jobs Board Maintainer change post by Mike Driscoll      `http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2010/12/python-jobs-board-maintainer-changing.html  <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2010/12/python-jobs-board-maintainer-changing.html>`_

- SciPy India grant post by Paulo Nuin      `http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2010/12/psf-supports-2010-scipy-india.html  <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2010/12/psf-supports-2010-scipy-india.html>`_

For items planned for next month and ongoing projects, D. Hellmann reported
respectively:

- Post linking to the news article about Vern Ceder's Python programming class for high school students.

Facebook stats, as of 13 Dec. 

10,782 monthly active users, up 7,567 since last week 

20,826 people like this, up 442 since last week 

130 wall posts and comments this week, up 78 since last week 

2,030 visits this week, up 430 since last week

`5.2   Core Development Tasks <#id7>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

B. Cannon, Core Development Tasks Project, will begin working
on this 2-month project in January 2011. B. Cannon said, &quot;My goal
is to have the dev docs finished by the end of January with hopes
of having a very solid (with hopes of substantial) start on the
Python 2 to 3 porting HOWTO.&quot;

`5.3   HAM WebPages/Links <#id8>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

P. Campbell, Honorary Associate Membership (HAM) WebPages Start-up
Project, reported continued activities from last month, by saying
&quot;Andrew Kuchling of Matrix Maxx and Kurt Kaiser our PSF treasurer are now
working together with MatrixMaxx, a CMS program and PayFlow Pro, an
accounting program to make the new Honorary Associate Membership a reality.

With the use of the MatrixMaxx program our expectations are for full
automation of the HAM membership signup, fee payment, annual renewals, etc.
without the need for manual intervention.&quot;

Board Discussion: 

S. Holden: &quot;Happy to see that we may soon have some movement on being able
to sign up HAMs. That's been stalled for too long now.&quot;

`5.4   Infrastructure Committee <#id9>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

S. Reifschneider, Infrastructure Committee Chair, reported the following
work initiated for the month:

- Martin set up DNS for the Polish Python Coders group.They were losing access to their previous domain at www.python.org.pl because the domain owner wanted to commercialize it. COMPLETED.

`5.5   Marketing Material <#id10>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

M.A.Lemburg, Marketing Material Project Manager, presented a marketing
material proposal to the board that was discussed and voted on (see topic
below for vote results -- Pre-Finance & Underwrite Python Brochure).

`5.6   Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront <#id11>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The project leader, M.A. Lemburg, Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront, provided
a purpose for his project by saying, &quot;The project is intended to improve the
availability, uptime and performance of PyPI for use by automatic package
installation tools.

The main idea is to make all PyPI static content available via Amazon
Cloudfront, a content delivery network maintained by Amazon.&quot;

MAL hopes to get his project started by early 2011. He would also like
to start recruiting for volunteers to help implement the startup facets of
the project.

`5.7   PyCon US Website <#id12>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

D. Napoleone, PyCon US Website Project, reported continued activities from
last month, by saying:

- Registration Launched      Registration is now live, and after a minor problem with donation notifications, has worked with no problems. We have record registrations for this period.

- Talk, Tutorial, and Poster reviews are progressing      There were some minor complications with the software for reviewing submitted materials, but they have all been resolved.

For items planned for next month and ongoing projects, D. Napoleone reported
respectively:

- New schedule system from Eldarion

- Bug fixes and feature requests.

- Archival of old PyCon websites.

Board Discussion: 

S. Holden: &quot;I'd like to be sure the PyCon website is supporting financial assistance
properly - jnoller, any idea on that?&quot;

- Noller: &quot;FA (Financial Aid) is accepting applications.&quot;

- Holden: &quot;Fine, thanks.&quot;

`5.8   Sprint Committee <#id13>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

J. Noller, Sprint Committee Chair, reported continued activities from last month,
by saying he was &quot;shifting gears to accept applications for funding from all python
projects.&quot;

Board Discussion: 

S. Holden: &quot;Glad sprints have widened their scope and look forward to seeing the new
documentation.&quot;

`5.9   Trademarks Committee <#id14>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

D. Mertz, Trademarks Committee Chair, reported continued activities from last month
by saying the committee &quot;received several requests for use of logo and/or wordmark.
In all cases during the last two months, the requested use was purely nominative and
no additional discussion by the committee was required.The chair or a member provided
clarification to requester in each case.&quot;

`6   Pre-Finance & Underwrite Python Brochure <#id15>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**,that the PSF pre-finances and underwrites the costs of
    producing a printed Python brochure as outlined in the proposal
    `http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/psf-board/2010-December/013532.html <http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/psf-board/2010-December/013532.html>`_.

Approved, 6-5-0.

`7   Fund 2010 Summer pyGames Competition <#id16>`_
---------------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF provide a grant of $1,000 US to sponsor the Summer
    pyGames python based programming competition.

Aproved, 10-0-1.

`8   2010-Q4 Community Service Award Nominations <#id17>`_
----------------------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the 2010-Q4 PSF Community Service Award be awarded to
    Doug Hellmann and Andrew Kuchling.

Approved, 10-0-0.

`9   Other Business <#id18>`_
-----------------------------

`9.1   Indebtedness to D. Goodger <#id19>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The board discussed the need to move forward on several time-sensitive
payments to be made to PSF member D. Goodger for services rendered to the
organization.

`9.2   Message of Seasonal Cheer! <#id20>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Towards the end of the meeting the chairman (S. Holden) thanked everyone
for their hard work and wished everyone &quot;the best for the holidays.&quot;

- Peters: &quot;Cheers!&quot;

- Holden: &quot;Have a great time, relax, come back refreshed next month!&quot;

- Campbell:&quot;Happy Holidays&quot;

M.A. Lemburg: Cheers, Happy Holidays!&quot; 

- Willadsen: &quot;Have a great holiday!

- Rush: &quot;Happy Holidays to all!

- Kaiser: &quot;Merry Xmas!&quot;

`10   Adjournment <#id21>`_
---------------------------

- Holden adjourned the meeting at 16:52 UTC.