The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors 

July 26, 2010

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat beginning at 16:01 UTC, 26
July 2010.  Steve Holden presided at the meeting.  David Mertz prepared
the minutes.

All votes are reported in the form &quot;*Y-N-A*&quot; (*in favor ? opposed ?
abstentions*; e.g. &quot;5-1-2&quot; means &quot;5 in favor, 1 opposed, and 2
abstentions&quot;).

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#minutes-of-past-meetings>`_

- `3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#votes-taken-between-meetings>`_

- `4   Treasurer Report <#treasurer-report>`_

- `5   Progress Report <#progress-report>`_

- `6   Funding of Jean-Paul Calderone for a port of pyOpenSSL to Python 3.x <#funding-of-jean-paul-calderone-for-a-port-of-pyopenssl-to-python-3-x>`_

- `7   Funding of Brett Cannon for Python core development <#funding-of-brett-cannon-for-python-core-development>`_

- `8   Donation to American Heart Association <#donation-to-american-heart-association>`_

- `9   Reauthorization of the Trademarks Committee <#reauthorization-of-the-trademarks-committee>`_

- `10   Funding of PyCon Argentina and Python Brasil <#funding-of-pycon-argentina-and-python-brasil>`_

- `11   Discussion of Email Balloting <#discussion-of-email-balloting>`_

- `12   Electronic Contributor Agreements <#electronic-contributor-agreements>`_

- `13   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Steve Holden, Gloria Willadsen, Jeff Rush, Marc-Andr? Lemburg,
Jesse Noller, David Mertz, Tim Peters, Douglas Napoleone [joined meeting
at 16:08], James Tauber [joined meeting at 16:10], Raymond Hettinger
[joined meeting at 16:39].  Also in attendance was Kurt Kaiser
(treasurer).

`2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#id2>`_
--------------------------------------

The 10 May 2010 Board meeting minutes were approved during this month's
meeting session.

Approved, 6-0-1. 

The 21 June 2010 Board meeting minutes were approved during this month's
meeting session.

Approved, 4-0-3.

`3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#id3>`_
------------------------------------------

There were no votes taken since the last Board meeting on 21 June 2010.

`4   Treasurer Report <#id4>`_
------------------------------

The montly Treasurer's Report was provided to Board members by K.
Kaiser prior to the Board meeting.

The board discussed how to respond to Wendroff's request for increase in
fees from the previously contracted amounts; dissatisfaction with the
level of service from Wendroff was discussed.  The Chair will explore
other options for future accounting service.

`5   Progress Report <#id5>`_
-----------------------------

Jesse Noller reported funding of 2 sprints, one in Canada and one at
Europython, and the potential to fund 2-3 in the upcoming months.  He
reports 2 potential donors and plenty of donated space for sprints,
including space donation by Microsoft.

`6   Funding of Jean-Paul Calderone for a port of pyOpenSSL to Python 3.x <#id6>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The board voted on the funding motion. 

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF offers a USD 3,000 grant to Jean-Paul
    Calderone for a fully functional port of pyOpenSSL to Python 3.x
    with an API as similar to the 2.x API as possible.

Approved, 9-0-0.

`7   Funding of Brett Cannon for Python core development <#id7>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The board discussed the funding request previously submitted in writing
by Brett Cannon.

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF offers a USD 4,500 grant to work
    full-time for a period of two months on Python core development as
    outlined in the proposal PDF
    (`http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/psf-board/attachments/20100614/62bbf3b8/attachment-0001.pdf <http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/psf-board/attachments/20100614/62bbf3b8/attachment-0001.pdf>`_).

Approved, 9-0-0.

`8   Donation to American Heart Association <#id8>`_
----------------------------------------------------

The board voted on a charitable donation in memory of Tim Costello. 

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF donate $100 to the American Heart
    Association in memory of Tim Costello, the uber- technician of CTE
    who recently passed-away.

Approved, 9-0-0.

`9   Reauthorization of the Trademarks Committee <#id9>`_
---------------------------------------------------------

The board discussed a revised membership and continuation of the
Trademarks Committee.

    **RESOLVED**, that the Board reauthorize the Trademarks Committee,
    with a membership consisting of Chair David Mertz, and members
    Marc-Andre Lemburg, David Goodger, James Tauber, Doug Napoleone.
    Further resolve that the Chair shall be authorized to appoint or
    remove such advisors to the committee as s/he sees fit, where
    advisors may offer advice to the committee on legal or technical
    issues but shall not vote in discussions nor count towards quorum.

Approved, 5-0-3.

`10   Funding of PyCon Argentina and Python Brasil <#id10>`_
------------------------------------------------------------

The board discussed a funding request that would cover joint funding of
speakers to appear at both time-adjacent conferences. The original
request was felt to be underspecified, heed was taken to current
financial limitations fo the PSF, and the board reached a clarified
motion.

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF offers a grant of US$2500 to the
    organizers of the PyCon Argentina & Python Brasil 2010 conferences
    to be held October 2010, to fund the travel expenses of keynote
    speakers.

Approved, 9-0-0.

`11   Discussion of Email Balloting <#id11>`_
---------------------------------------------

Concern was expressed that Secretary Pat Campbell's health issue may
prevent her from conducting the planned election to follow the recent
EuroPython.

Consensus was reached that the board should wait two weeks to see if Pat
is comfortable with conducting the election at such time; further
consensus was reached that should she be unable to conduct this
election, another a principled non-PSF member would be suitable to
conduct the balloting (with technical assistance from David Mertz, as
needed).

`12   Electronic Contributor Agreements <#id12>`_
-------------------------------------------------

The board discussed whether electronic signatures would be legally
appropriate for contributor agreements and whether use of them would
make it easier to optain such agreements.  Jeff Rush agreed to research
the issue.

`13   Adjournment <#id13>`_
---------------------------

Steve Holden adjourned the meeting at 17:10 UTC.