The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors 

December 19, 2011

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat beginning at 16:00 UTC, 19
December 2011. Steve Holden presided at the meeting. Pat Campbell
prepared the minutes.

All votes are reported in the form &quot;*Y-N-A*&quot; (*in favor ??? opposed ???
abstentions*; e.g. &quot;5-1-2&quot; means &quot;5 in favor, 1 opposed, and 2
abstentions&quot;).

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#minutes-of-past-meetings>`_

- `3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#votes-taken-between-meetings>`_

- `4   Treasurer Report <#treasurer-report>`_

- `5   Progress Reports <#progress-reports>`_- `5.1   Communication Status <#communication-status>`_  - `5.2   Honorary Associate Membership WebPages/Links <#honorary-associate-membership-webpages-links>`_  - `5.3   Marketing Material <#marketing-material>`_  - `5.4   Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront <#moving-pypi-to-amazon-cloudfront>`_  - `5.5   PyCon Chair <#pycon-chair>`_  - `5.6   Sprint Committee <#sprint-committee>`_  - `5.7   Trademarks Committee (TMC) <#trademarks-committee-tmc>`_

- `6   2011 - Q4 Community Service Award Nominations <#q4-community-service-award-nominations>`_

- `7   2012 Members Meeting & Election <#members-meeting-election>`_

- `8   Sponsor Membership Application from Epom <#sponsor-membership-application-from-epom>`_

- `9   Archival Storage for PyCon US Videos <#archival-storage-for-pycon-us-videos>`_

- `10   Other Business <#other-business>`_- `10.1   Message of Seasonal Cheer! <#message-of-seasonal-cheer>`_

- `11   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors (9 of ll) were present at
the meeting: Raymond Hettinger, Steve Holden, Marc-Andre Lemburg [arrived
at 12:14], Martin von L?wis, David Mertz [arrived at 1:08], Jesse Noller,
Tim Peters, Jeff Rush, and Gloria Willadsen. Also in attendance were Kurt
Kaiser (Treasurer) and Pat Campbell (Secretary/Administrator).

`2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#id2>`_
--------------------------------------

The 21 November 2011 Board meeting minutes were voted on and approved. 

    **RESOLVED**, the minutes at `http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/psf-board <http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/psf-board>`_
    /2011-November/015898.html be accepted as a true and accurate record

Approved, 6-0-1.

`3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#id3>`_
------------------------------------------

There were no votes taken between meetings.

`4   Treasurer Report <#id4>`_
------------------------------

The monthly Treasurer's Report was provided to Board members by K.
Kaiser prior to the Board meeting and produced from Quickbooks Online.

Here is an exerpt from the treasurer's report on a few of the activities
the treasurer has been focused on:

&quot;YTD income was down by 6K in November. 

    AR is down by 58K due to PyCon 2012 Sponsor invoicing/collection
    activity, offset by invoicing our PSF Sponsors.

    Donations for the month were $1769.&quot;

Kurt concluded his report with a list of financial business items he will
be focused on, he said:

&quot;My focus is on the Associate Member program and AR reduction.  I'm also
looking into fiscal sponsorship issues and working with Python Boston.
Restricted donations will have to be recognized in the year received
in accordance with non-profit GAAP.&quot;

Board Meeting Discussion: 

- Holden: &quot;I see our net profit for the year is moving towards $200,000.&quot;

- Kaiser: &quot;Well, not that high, and  won't go higher.&quot;

S. Holden: &quot;It is still a very creditable performance, though. It's nice
to see past losses being erased, and I am hoping that next year's PyCon will
bring a boost to that revenue stream.&quot;

- Kaiser: &quot;Yes, thanks to Van [Lindberg] and Jesse [Noller].&quot;

`5   Progress Reports <#id5>`_
------------------------------

The following board reports were submitted to the board mailing list
one week prior to this month's meeting. Please see a summary of each
board report listed below and a possible board discussion at the end
of the report(s):

`5.1   Communication Status <#id6>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

D. Hellmann, Communication Officer, reported on continued activities from
last month. He said:

    1. Send announcement email about the blog to various mailing lists
    (c.l.py, c.l.py.announce, etc.).

    *No progress.*

Doug also reported on the new activities for the month. The list of activities
included the following:

    - PyCon China post by Brian Curtin

        `http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/12/first-annual-pycon-china-hit-in.html <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/12/first-annual-pycon-china-hit-in.html>`_

    - Grants for Porting to Python 3 post by Mike Driscoll

        `http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/12/psf-proffers-payment-to-port-to-python.html <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/12/psf-proffers-payment-to-port-to-python.html>`_

He reported the following information on the planned activities for next month: 

    Nothing specific.

As far as the ongoing projects for the month are concerned, he reported: 

    - Boston Python Workshop Grant post by Jessica McKellar      `http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/11/boston-python-workshop-psf-grant.html  <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/11/boston-python-workshop-psf-grant.html>`_

    - Brian Curtin is working on a post about the video equipment purchased by the PSF and how it has been used to record conference talks and other events.

    - Recruiting other people to help write for the blog.      A few volunteers have expressed interest, but things are getting off to a slow start.  I hope to have some more interesting topics to give them after the August Board meeting.

    - Mike Driscoll is working on a retrospective post summarizing all of the funding we have provided for conferences over the last year. We will wait to publish until closer to the end of 2011.

    - We have initiated a transition plan so Brian Curtin can take over as Communications Director around the time of the next Board elections after PyCon 2012.

For tabled activities, D. Hellmann said: 

    - PyCon video equipment loan/rental program post      There was some discussion of offering the PyCon video equipment to PUGs for their meetings, but the mechanism to do it isn't in place, yet.

`5.2   Honorary Associate Membership WebPages/Links <#id7>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

P. Campbell, Honorary Associate Membership (HAM) WebPages Start-up
Project, reported on the current issues or blockages the project may
be faced with by saying:

&quot;We have been in the technical phase of the Honorary Associate
Membership (HAM) Project for some time now. However, we are not too
far away from recruiting our first PSF Honorary Associate member.

Many technical hurdles have been jumped in order to setup the HAM program
and we are now beginning to see some movement toward getting the HAM website
page prepared for membership recruitment and subscriptions.&quot;

As far as the continued activities from last month are concerned, she reported: 

&quot;Since Kurt Kaiser, our treasurer, has been able to devote more time to the
HAM project implementation and setup, we should be able to set the launch date
soon. However, Kurt is requesting help toward getting the website content
together.

Please see the message from Kurt Kaiser?s December 2011 treasurer?s report
regarding the current status of the technical phase of the HAM program
implementation and maintenance:

    The text on HAM signup pages is preliminary and needs improvement.
    I'm looking for help here!

    Continuing work on a front page with Associate Member sign-up
    information. Decide how to present the HAM Membership to the world,
    probably via a python.org link.

`5.3   Marketing Material <#id8>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

M.A.Lemburg, Marketing Material Project Manager, provided a summary
of his work. He said:

    The project is lead by Marc-Andr? Lemburg who is in contact with
    the people behind the Plone brochure created by the German Zope
    User Group (DZUG): Jan Ulrich Hasecke and Armin Stro?-Radschinski.

    We started working on the concept a few weeks after World Plone Day
    in April 2010 and had several meetings and conference calls to take
    the idea forward.

    For more details, please see the brochure support site at: 

        `http://brochure.getpython.info/learn-more <http://brochure.getpython.info/learn-more>`_

Marc-Andr? also reported on the progress of this project when he said: 

    In the last month, we ran another round of emails by our leads
    which resulted in finally getting content from some of them.
    Interestingly, none of the press offices responded to our
    requests - I guess the direct approach is still the best to
    enter larger companies.

    Unfortunately, we did not manage to get content for some
    of the high profile leads we had - both legal departments
    and management took too long to come to a conclusion whether
    to submit a story or not. We will follow up with them for
    a possible second edition of the brochure.

    Overall, the content collection took about 4 months longer
    than expected. As a result, we are not going to be able to
    meet our set deadline of shipping the first edition of the
    brochure in time for PyCon US 2012 without putting the
    financials, success and quality of content at risk.

    Instead of shipping the final brochure, we're planing on
    sending a teaser or flyer for inclusion in the PyCon US
    conference bag. We hope to ramp up the number of subscription
    sponsors that way (*).

    As of now, we are working on compressing and finalizing the
    brochure text, getting texts translated, proof read and
    formatted for the brochure.

    Armin, our designer and producer, is working on an example
    double page based on the existing drafts to use in the
    sponsor acquisition phase, which is due to start as soon
    as the credit card payment system is set up.

    The latter was delayed due to having to go through three levels
    of providers/contracts, each with its own set of quirks
    and problems. Armin expects to have this done early in
    January.

    These are the available sponsorship plans we have available: 

        `http://brochure.getpython.info/sponsorship <http://brochure.getpython.info/sponsorship>`_

    and here's the media data for the brochure: 

        `http://brochure.getpython.info/mediadata <http://brochure.getpython.info/mediadata>`_

    Esp. the reference entry sponsorships should be interesting for
    smaller Python companies:

        `http://brochure.getpython.info/mediadata/reference-entry-guidelines <http://brochure.getpython.info/mediadata/reference-entry-guidelines>`_

    (*) Subscription sponsors are sponsors that order boxes of brochures
    for their own use or to donate to interested parties such as
    universities, schools, administration, etc. These boxes are
    produced in addition to the original 10,000 copy edition, we
    will be printing - due to the way printing works, adding more
    copies to a single run is comparatively cheap, which allows
    us to keep the per brochure price low.

M.A Lemberg reported on the current issues the project is faced with.
He said:

    Even though the deadline for submission of stories for
    the first edition has already passed, we are still accepting
    stories. These will then be considered for a possible second
    edition and also be published on the web site.

    If you know of interesting projects or companies using Python
    to great things, please contact us and consider signing up as
    contact scout:

        `http://brochure.getpython.info/signup/contact-scout-signup <http://brochure.getpython.info/signup/contact-scout-signup>`_

    and, if you're interested in the project, please consider signing
    up to our newsletter:

        `http://brochure.getpython.info/ <http://brochure.getpython.info/>`_

    Thanks !

As far as future plans are concerned, he reported: 

    If the project goes well, we'll follow up with a Python flyer,
    translated versions of the brochure and also consider creating
    marketing material more targeted at specific user groups or
    application fields.

    In the long run, we'd also like to take the idea of producing
    marketing material beyond printed material and develop booth
    setups, giveaways, CDs, etc. to support conference organizers and
    local user groups wishing to promote Python at their events.

`5.4   Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront <#id9>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The project leader, M.A. Lemburg, Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront,
reported on progress for the month:

&quot;The project is currently on hold, since the team members don't have
time to put into this.&quot;

In terms of having any issues surrounding his project, M. A.
Lemburg reported no issues except one: he said, he just does not have
enough time to devote to his Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront project.

- - Lemburg also reported on future plans for the project:

&quot;Check to see whether a trigger based approach to S3 syncing
wouldn't be easier to implement right from the start.&quot;

`5.5   PyCon Chair <#id10>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

J. Noller, PyCon Chair, provided us with information on when and where
the next two PyCon US conferences will be held, in addition to the web
location of the official PyCon 2012. Please see below:

PyCon 2012: March 7th ? 15th, Santa Clara, CA
PyCon 2013: March 11th ? 21st, Santa Clara, CA
Official Site: `http://us.pycon.org/2012 <http://us.pycon.org/2012>`_

He also provided &quot;notes&quot; for this month. He said: 

    We are officially capping registration at 1500 attendees. The team feels that
    this is beneficial to the conference as a whole, and allows us to maintain the
    feel PyCon has grown into. We also feel this will encourage other regional
    conferences to grow in turn.

    I am working on a draft document to present to the board of directors that
    clarifies PyCon's position as a key fundraising entity for the Foundation. As
    the planning and execution of PyCon 2012 has continued, this has become more
    and more true. More later; some thoughts here:
    `http://jessenoller.com/2011/09/23/pycon-2012-sponsorship-making-the-case-for-sponsorship/ <http://jessenoller.com/2011/09/23/pycon-2012-sponsorship-making-the-case-for-sponsorship/>`_

For the month of October, Jesse reported on &quot;Issues and blockages.&quot; 
He said: 

    1. We are still waiting on AV/Recording vendor responses to our request for
    quotes. This is a concern - I'd like to lock these contracts down quickly, but
    can not make the bidding parties move more quickly. I have seen partial initial
    AV bids, but nothing concrete.

As far as the continued activities from last month, he reported: 

    1. Sponsor signup is slowing down - this is no longer a priority issue.
    Invoicing continues thanks to Kurt's work. We have exceeded our initial
    sponsorship goals by 200%

    - Financial updates will be sent to the private board list. We now have 77 sponsors.

    3. Registration for the conference and tutorials has officially launched - see:
    `http://pycon.blogspot.com/2011/12/registration-for-pycon-2012-opened.html <http://pycon.blogspot.com/2011/12/registration-for-pycon-2012-opened.html>`_

    4. Idan Gazit has been tapped to do the artwork for the Program Guide and
    T-Shirts.

    - Negotiations with Elegant Stitches are ongoing.

    6. The Tutorial committee has completed it's work, and the full schedule has
    been announced. We have an amazing line up of tutorials thanks to the hard work
    of the team:
    `http://pycon.blogspot.com/2011/12/announcing-pycon-2012-tutorials.html <http://pycon.blogspot.com/2011/12/announcing-pycon-2012-tutorials.html>`_

    7. The program committee has wrapped up the talk selection process. The final
    talk selection and schedule are under way. Looking to announce this ASAP.

    8. We have announced a partnership with PyLadies for PyCon 2012. This means I
    have increased the financial aid budget for this effort specifically:
    `http://pyladies.com/blog/call-for-applications-and-sponsors-for-pyladies-pycon-us-2012/ <http://pyladies.com/blog/call-for-applications-and-sponsors-for-pyladies-pycon-us-2012/>`_

    9. Financial aid is up and running as part of registration - due to the
    increased sponsorship levels, we will be performing a lot more FA/Outreach:
    `https://us.pycon.org/2012/assistance/ <https://us.pycon.org/2012/assistance/>`_

Jesse also listed the new activities for the month. Please see below: 

    - Get solid quotes on t-shirt costs. [need to follow up]

    - Signed freeman contract.

The last two PyCon US items reported on by Jesse were the activities &quot;planned for
next month&quot; where he listed five (5) items and included a list of the &quot;current Heads/Staff
for PyCon 2012.&quot;

    [see above] 

    1. Finalize the main track talk selection, send out acceptance notices.
    3. Begin organizing the on-site and other volunteer staff.
    4. Get Startup row announced and launched (call for applications)
    7. Wrap up plenary talk selection.
    8. Outreach to all sponsors for required marketing materials.

Current Heads/Staff for PyCon 2012 

    Chair: Jesse Noller
    Co-Chair: Yannick Gingras

    Accountant/Sponsors: Van Lindberg
    Event Coordinator: Ewa Jodlowska/CTE
    Public Relations Lead: Brian Curtin

    Tech Lead: Doug Napoleone
    Tech Co-Lead: Noah Kantrowtiz

    Volunteer Lead: TBD 

    Program Committee Chair: Jacob Kaplan-Moss
    Program Committee Co-Chair: Tim Lesher

    Tutorials Chair: Stuart Williams
    Tutorials Co-Chair: TBD

    Posters Chair: Vern Ceder
    Posters Co-Chair: Zac Miller

    Financial Aide Chair: Peter Kropf
    Financial Aide Co-Chair: Gloria W.

However, under &quot;tabled activities,&quot; he provided the following: 

    None

Board Meeting Discussion: 

- Rush: &quot;Do we have AV [audio/video] bids yet?&quot;

J. Noller: &quot;As it said in my report - No - although as of the end of last
week we are zeroing in on the bids.&quot;

`5.6   Sprint Committee <#id11>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

J. Noller, Sprint Committee Chair, provided a summary of activities for
this month, he reported:

    No new sprint activity this month outside of catching up on the
    backlog of reimbursements.
    We were notified that our poster proposal to the PyCon US &quot;poster
    session&quot; was accepted.

As far as the continued activities from last month, he reported: 

    None

On his report of the new activities for the month, J. Noller said: 

    Submitted reimbursement details for the Plone Conference sprints to
    Kurt and are awaiting fulfillment. The repayment details are slightly
    different than we normally receive, but they seem workable.

`5.7   Trademarks Committee (TMC) <#id12>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

D. Mertz, Trademarks Committee Chair, reported on issues & blockages for
the month. He said:

    - Probably moot by now, but never a formal answer from PSF counsel several times about whether assignment of derived logos to the PSF might allow us to grant broader permission (for what would then, hypothetically) be PSF trademarks.

As far as reporting on new activities, however, he provided the following
list of items:

    - Mid December: Esri Press is currently developing a manuscript, Python Scripting for ArcGIS.  They asked permission for a book cover design that I, as chair, initially thought was &quot;inspired but not derived&quot; from out logo. However, the opinion of other members was that it was a derived logo; I responded to Brian Harris <;`bharris@esri.com <mailto:bharris%40esri.com>`_> with a request that they use an alternate cover design not suggesting logo (which he indicated they had created; though we have not seen it).

    - Mid December: Jack Preston <;`jackprestonuk@gmail.com <mailto:jackprestonuk%40gmail.com>`_> requested use of logo and Python code sample as design on coffee mugs for same at Zazzle.co.uk.  We authorized unmodified logo use but requested he consider donation part of proceeds to PSF.

    - Late November: Approved Perry Leijten <;`perryleijten@gmail.com <mailto:perryleijten%40gmail.com>`_> to use &quot;3D&quot; version of logo to illustrate personal website illustrating Python in Maya.

    - Early December: Devi thirupathi <;`tdevi5@gmail.com <mailto:tdevi5%40gmail.com>`_> requested use of Python logo and name for an academic conference on Python.  We clarified that his use was nominative.

    - Late November: Continued clarification with Adam Mechtley <;`adam.mechtley@gmail.com <mailto:adam.mechtley%40gmail.com>`_> on his revised cover design for Maya Python book and website.  Modified versions maintain shape suitably.

    - Late October: &quot;Dr. Markus Wirtz&quot; <;`mw@opensourcepress.de <mailto:mw%40opensourcepress.de>`_> requested use of logo on book *PyQt and PySide* and we clarified that the proposed use was fine. The logo used some coloration change, but the shape is maintained.

    - Late October: Clarified for Christophe BAL <;`projetmbc@gmail.com <mailto:projetmbc%40gmail.com>`_> that the logo in isolation, apart from the word mark, was covered in our nominative use policy.

    - Mid October: Clarified for ?ric Araujo <;`merwok@netwok.org <mailto:merwok%40netwok.org>`_> that use of unmodified logo in incorporation into an &quot;avatar&quot; logo is covered in nominative use.

    - Early October: Clarified for John Anderson <;`sontek@gmail.com <mailto:sontek%40gmail.com>`_> of Cafe Press that unmodified use of logo in clothing items is covered in nominative use.

    - Early October: Clarified for Kami Lott <;`kami@github.com <mailto:kami%40github.com>`_> on unmodified use of logo in clothing being covered in nominative use.

    - Early October: Clarified for Aidan Hartman <;`aidan@datapro.net <mailto:aidan%40datapro.net>`_> that he was permitted to use &quot;Python Powered&quot; logo on personal website.

    - Late September: Authorized Bruno Rocha <;`rochacbruno@gmail.com <mailto:rochacbruno%40gmail.com>`_> of www.cursodepython.com.br to use unmodified logo in clothing items.

He also reported on &quot;ongoing projects.&quot; He said: 

    - Need to write to `http://www.pylatte.org/ <http://www.pylatte.org/>`_ to express concern what looks like an improper modified version of the logo.

    - Never really resolved preference of submitted logos for Python sponsor levels, should really finally decide this.

Board Meeting Discussion: 

S. Holden: &quot;We are getting more tradesmark inquiries nowadays, and they are
being dealt with with reasonable despatch, I think. I was worried though
whether we can have better tracking for tradesmark requests.&quot;

M.v L?wis: &quot;i.e. somehow make sure that they all get responded to. Pat [Campbell,
Administrator], is that something that you could take?&quot;

S. Holden: &quot;Such as a tracking system? We could do that if David [Mertz, TMC
Chair] will accept it into his workflow, I suppose.&quot;

- Campbell: &quot;It sounds good to me.&quot;

The above TMC discussion was deferred to email.

`6   2011 - Q4 Community Service Award Nominations <#id13>`_
------------------------------------------------------------

The board discussed and then selected Mike M?ller and Armin Rigo
as the recipients of the 2011-4th Quarter PSF Community Service Award.

    **RESOLVED**, that Mike M?ller and Armin Rigo be given Python
    Community Service Awards for 2011-4th Quarter.

Approved, 8-0-0.

`7   2012 Members Meeting & Election <#id14>`_
--------------------------------------------------

Planning is underway for the 2012 Members meeting that will take place at
PyCon 2012 in Santa Clara, California and also the 2012 members election
which will take place online two weeks following the members meeting.

This discussion was primarily guided by the PSF secretary and was deferred
to email.

`8   Sponsor Membership Application from Epom <#id15>`_
-------------------------------------------------------

Due to an incomplete application package from Epom, the board
decided to table this agenda item and hold-off voting until the
2012 January board meeting. This decision was made in order to
give Epom enough time to get the remainder of their membership
application paperwork into the board for a timely board review
of the company.

`9   Archival Storage for PyCon US Videos <#id16>`_
---------------------------------------------------

The board discussed PyCon US need of funding for storage of their
video archives. However, due to a lack of information about the type
of storage needed for the project and the cost, this agenda item was
tabled. Board members will resume this discussion and vote at a later
date when more information is available.

`10   Other Business <#id17>`_
------------------------------

`10.1   Message of Seasonal Cheer! <#id18>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Towards the end of the meeting the chairman (S. Holden) wished everyone
a &quot;Happy Christmas and whatever other festivals you celebrate.&quot;

`11   Adjournment <#id19>`_
---------------------------

- Holden adjourned the meeting at 17:10 UTC.