The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors 

May 16, 2011

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat beginning at 16:00 UTC, 16
May 2011. Steve Holden presided at the meeting. Pat Campbell prepared
the minutes.

All votes are reported in the form &quot;*Y-N-A*&quot; (*in favor ??? opposed ???
abstentions*; e.g. &quot;5-1-2&quot; means &quot;5 in favor, 1 opposed, and 2
abstentions&quot;).

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#minutes-of-past-meetings>`_

- `3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#votes-taken-between-meetings>`_

- `4   Treasurer Report <#treasurer-report>`_

- `5   Progress Reports <#progress-reports>`_- `5.1   Communication Status <#communication-status>`_  - `5.2   Honorary Associate Membership WebPages/Links <#honorary-associate-membership-webpages-links>`_  - `5.3   Infrastructure Committee <#infrastructure-committee>`_  - `5.4   Marketing Material <#marketing-material>`_  - `5.5   Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront <#moving-pypi-to-amazon-cloudfront>`_  - `5.6   PyCon Chair (new) <#pycon-chair-new>`_  - `5.7   Sprint Committee <#sprint-committee>`_

- `6   Final PyCon-related Expenses <#final-pycon-related-expenses>`_

- `7   SciPy 2011 Conference Funding <#scipy-2011-conference-funding>`_

- `8   2011 Libre Graphics Meeting (LGM) Funding <#libre-graphics-meeting-lgm-funding>`_

- `9   2011 PyArgentina Conference Funding <#pyargentina-conference-funding>`_

- `10   Appointment of 2011/2012 PSF Committee Chairs <#appointment-of-2011-2012-psf-committee-chairs>`_

- `11   Procedures Used to Appointment the 2011/2012 PSF Committee Members <#procedures-used-to-appointment-the-2011-2012-psf-committee-members>`_

- `12   2011 Frank Willison Award Nomination <#frank-willison-award-nomination>`_

- `13   Other Business <#other-business>`_- `13.1   PSF Seeks an Assistant Treasurer <#psf-seeks-an-assistant-treasurer>`_

- `14   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Steve Holden, Marc-Andre Lemburg [arrived at 12:21], David Mertz,
Doug Napoleone [arrived at 12:29], Jesse Noller, Tim Peters, Allison Randal,
Jeff Rush, and Martin von Loewis. Also in attendance were Kurt Kaiser
(Treasurer), and Pat Campbell (Secretary & Administrator).

`2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#id2>`_
--------------------------------------

The 18 April 2011 Board meeting minutes were voted on and approved. 

Approved, 6-0-1.

`3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#id3>`_
------------------------------------------

There were no votes taken since the last Board meeting held on 18
April 2011.

`4   Treasurer Report <#id4>`_
------------------------------

The monthly Treasurer's Report was provided to Board members by K.
Kaiser prior to the Board meeting and produced from Quickbooks Online.

Here is an excerpt from the treasurer's report on a few of the activities
the treasurer has been focused on:

&quot;My focus remains on AR and AP reduction, PyCon wrap-up and final
payments to the hotel, and implementation of the Associate Member
program, with increased effort on the latter.&quot;

Board Discussion: 

The board briefly discussed the outstanding AR and the 2011 PyCon
Conference hotel bill.

S. Holden: &quot;I am rather concerned that the outstanding AR appears
to be all or mostly *last year's* sponsor memberships. We haven't
invoiced this year yet, and it's almost June.

K. Kaiser: &quot;I wanted some gap between the 2010 and 2011 invoices
so the sponsors wouldn't get confused.&quot;

J. Noller: &quot;I am waiting on @kbk's [K. Kaiser] approval that the books
are closed to move forward with financial obligations for Pycon 2012.&quot;

K. Kaiser: &quot;I'm hoping that we can clear the PyCon hotel bill soon and
recognize PyCon [2012]. I can't do that w/o the bill!&quot;

- Holden: &quot;Seems to me you need help.&quot;

K. Kaiser: &quot;Last year was a big problem. We introduced sponsor levels
and a new accounting system.

`5   Progress Reports <#id5>`_
------------------------------

The following board reports were submitted to the board mailing list
one week prior to this month's meeting. Please see a summary of each
board report listed below and a possible board discussion at the end
of the report(s):

`5.1   Communication Status <#id6>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

D. Hellmann, Communication Officer, reported continued activities from
last month, by saying:

    - Mike Driscoll wrote a post announcing the PyPy grant.      `http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/05/pypy-receives-us10000-at-pycon-usa.html  <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/05/pypy-receives-us10000-at-pycon-usa.html>`_

    - &quot;Python Insider&quot; blog translations.      Since we announced the Spanish and Japanese translations, close to 30 volunteers have stepped forward to translate the Python Insider blog into other languages. In addition to the original two translations, we now have teams working on Simplified and Traditional Chinese, Korean, Portuguese, Romanian, and German. Persian and Russian volunteers just joined and are setting up the tools. We have added links to all of the available translations in the sidebar on `http://blog.python.org/ <http://blog.python.org/>`_.

    - Work with Jesse Noller to announce the Python-core Mentors project.      *No progress*

    - Post a request for help with PSF logos      *No progress*

    - Post about common trademark use      *No progress*

As far as new activities for the month are concerned, he reported: 

    - Wrote up the list of new Board members for 2011-2012.      `http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/04/board-of-directors-for-2011-2012.html  <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/04/board-of-directors-for-2011-2012.html>`_

    - Wrote up the newly elected PSF members.      `http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/04/psf-elects-new-members.html  <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/04/psf-elects-new-members.html>`_

    - Announced Zimbio sponsorship      `http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/04/zimbio-joins-psf-as-sponsor-member.html  <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/04/zimbio-joins-psf-as-sponsor-member.html>`_

    - Announced Online Degree Reviews sponsorship      `http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/04/online-degree-reviews-joins-psf-as.html  <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/04/online-degree-reviews-joins-psf-as.html>`_

    - Announced next members meeting at EuroPython      `http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/05/next-psf-members-meeting-europython.html  <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/05/next-psf-members-meeting-europython.html>`_

For items planned for next month and ongoing projects, D. Hellmann reported
respectively:

    - Start interviews with GSoC students.

    Facebook stats 

    17,952 monthly active users (up 14%) 

    3,763 new likes (up 100%) 

    313,648 post views (down 42%) 

    717 post feedback

And, for tabled activities, Doug said: 

    - Writing about new PyCon website software.

    - Paulo Nuin is working on a post about the PyPI mirroring project.

`5.2   Honorary Associate Membership WebPages/Links <#id7>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

P. Campbell, Honorary Associate Membership (HAM) WebPages Start-up
Project, reported on the current issues or blockages the project may
be faced with by saying:

&quot;We have been in the technical phase of the Honorary Associate Membership
(HAM) Project for the past few months which means that the actual HAM
membership recruitment can not begin until the new membership sign-up and
payment system are in place on the official Python website.

According to Kurt Kaiser, our treasurer, since PyCon US 2011 is behind us,
he will be able to devote more of his time to the HAM project.

So, hopefully, our first HAM membership signup will soon be on the way
once the HAM membership signup and payment system is integrated with
python.org!&quot;

As far as continued activities from last month are concerned, she reported: 

    Please see the message below from Kurt Kaiser regarding the current
    status of the technical phase of the HAM program implementation and
    maintenance:

    &quot;There is basically no change, due to PyCon pressures.  I did discuss the
    project with several key people at PyCon and none of them had any
    suggestions on how to accomplish it using a currently available Python-based
    solution. They did express interest, however, and I'm pursing those leads on a
    secondary basis.  For now, CiviCRM appears to be the best way to get it going.

    I also discussed CiviCRM with John Sullivan, FSF ED, at the Free Software
    Foundation annual meeting 19 March.  He confirmed that their current solution for
    maintaining the FSF Assocate Memberships was Plone-based, but it was getting old
    and they were planning on switching to CiviCRM, primarily because they expected
    it to be easier to maintain and supplement content. They are already using CiviCRM
    for their Libre Planet website and registration system.  He offered help and
    collaboration with our implementation.&quot;

Pat reported on new activities for the month by saying: 

    &quot;Work is taking place with the new CiviCRM installation at psfmember.org by Kurt
    Kaiser.

    Also, Andrew Kuchling has been importing the PSF database from MatrixMaxx into
    CiviCRM where the Honorary Associate Membership data will reside. However, there
    is be more work to be done in order to get the site up and running

    According to Andrew, before the site is up and running, it will need a top page,
    for example:

    &quot;We need to implement a top page for the site, set up the associate-member pages,
    and then turn off 'Site is offline'.&quot;&quot;

`5.3   Infrastructure Committee <#id8>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

S. Reifschneider, Infrastructure Committee Chair, reported on continued activities from
last month when he wrote:

    - Arc Riley is taking over the DNS transfer activities of pound-python.

As far as new activities for the month, planned activities for next month, or ongoing
projects are concerned, Sean reported:

    - None.

`5.4   Marketing Material <#id9>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

M.A.Lemburg, Marketing Material Project Manager, reported progress
on the project:

&quot;The project is currently in the content acquisition phase. We
have sent out the first emails to the contacts made at PyCon US
and directly or indirectly with the help of Guido, Laura, Fabio,
Doug, as well as suggestions by the PSF members. We like to
thank them for their help.

Content negotiations have begun with Disney, ILM and RackSpace/
OpenStack. We are working with them to settle on licensing terms
for the images and getting project texts written/approved.

We've also been in contact with several science projects and
are preparing another wave of emails in the next week
to reach out to more projects.

Even though we have not yet actively been contacting companies
for sponsorships or funding, a few of the ones we have contacted
have already shown interested in supporting the project and
one of them is prepared to sign up with us.

More information on the available sponsoring/funding options
is available on our project website:

    `http://brochure.getpython.info/sponsorship <http://brochure.getpython.info/sponsorship>`_

M.A.Lemburg also reported issues with the project, he said: 

&quot;As always, additional help in finding such interesting projects
would be greatly appreciated. Please consider signing up as
contact scout:

    `http://brochure.getpython.info/signup/contact-scout-signup <http://brochure.getpython.info/signup/contact-scout-signup>`_

and, if you're interested in the project, please consider signing
up to our newsletter:

    `http://brochure.getpython.info/ <http://brochure.getpython.info/>`_

Thanks !&quot; 

As far as future plans are concerned, he reported: 

&quot;If the project goes well, we'll follow up with a Python flyer,
translated versions of the brochure and also consider creating
marketing material more targeted at specific user groups or
application fields.

In the long run, we'd also like to take the idea of producing
marketing material beyond printed material and develop booth
setups, giveaways, CDs, etc. to support conference organizers and
local user groups wishing to promote Python at their events.&quot;

`5.5   Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront <#id10>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The project leader, M.A. Lemburg, Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront,
reported progress on this project for the month:

&quot;No one on the team has had time to work on the project in the last
4 weeks.

By shutting down the EC2 instance, we have reduced the
monthly costs to USD 4.01, which is significantly down from the
USD 70-80 we had to pay with the EC2 instance up and running
for a whole month.&quot;

In terms of having any issues surrounding his project, M. A.
Lemburg reported no issues except that he just does not have enough
time to devote to his Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront project.

- - Lemburg also reported on future plans for the project:

&quot;Check to see whether a trigger based approach to S3 syncing
wouldn't be easier to implement right from the start.&quot;

`5.6   PyCon Chair (new) <#id11>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

J. Noller, PyCon Chair, provided his first report on activities for
this month. He started with:

    &quot;This is the first official report; so I have filed things where I felt
    appropriate.

    PyCon 2012: March 7th ? 15th, Santa Clara, CA 

    PyCon 2013: March 11th ? 21st, Santa Clara, CA

He reported on issues and blockages by saying: 

    &quot;1. Currently pending the final &quot;closing&quot; of the PyCon 2011
    books. I do not feel that we can &quot;open&quot; 2012 books until such
    time as this is done. Van Lindberg is almost done with this task,
    and the amount of money coming into the PSF from PyCon 2011 has
    been disclosed to the board. PyCon 2011 was an astounding social,
    community and financial success.&quot;

As far as reporting on the continued activities from last month, Jesse
said:

    &quot;1. Discussion and explanation of the &quot;deposit fees&quot; associated
    with the Hyatt Convention center in Santa Clara. Currently, we
    have paid a ~39K deposit for the 2012 convention and on 12/1/2011
    we must pay a deposit of 38,667 for the 2013 conference. These
    deposits are, while unfortunate in the short term, provide a long
    term benefit - quoting Van Lindberg (who constructed these
    contracts in conjunction with CTE guidance):

    &quot;A little bit of background - this is a case of spend money to
    save money. Right now there is still quite a bit of depression in
    the hotel/convention market - although it is going away
    quickly. This was a chance (for them) to lock us in to being
    there two years, and (for us) to lock in the lower of our 2011
    costs or negotiated 2012 costs for two years -- including
    catering!

    Given that we were already planning on staying there two years,
    this was a significant win on PyCon budget planning and
    expenditures without much of an effect on us other than the
    unfortunate deposit up front. On the bright side, we get the
    catering costs negotiated in 2009 - at the height of the
    recession - extended through 2013. As this is the single biggest
    cost driver for PyCon, this is a big win.&quot;&quot;

He reported on the new activities he is engaged in. Jesse said: 

    &quot;1. Discussed and signed of planned Letter of Intent for PyCon
    2014/2015 in Montreal, Canada. We had been negotiating for an
    April date that gives us warmer weather and in general, a better
    experience within the venue and town. The final LOI (Attached)
    has us hosting PyCon in Montreal from April 10 2014 to April 17
    2014 and from April 7, 2015 to April 16 2015.&quot;

    (The Letter of Intent has not been attached to the monthly board
    minutes here, however, it can be found in the attachment on
    J. Noller's original PyCon Chair report to the board for May
    2011.)

As far as the planned activities for next month, Jesse reported: 

    &quot;1. With the planned closing of the 2012 budget; I will begin
    finalizing the staffing roles of the PyCon programming
    committee. This currently looks like:

    Chair: Jesse Noller 

    Co-Chair: Yannick Gingras 

    Accountant/Sponsors: Van Lindberg

    Event Coordinator: Ewa Jodlowska/CTE 

    Public Relations Lead: Unknown

    Tech Lead: Doug Napoleone 

    Tech Co-Lead: Noah Kantrowtiz

    Program Committee Chair: Jacob Kaplan-Moss 

    Program Committee Co-Chair: Tim Lesher

    My Goal is to have each role have a secondary person who can act
    for that person in case of anything happening, and also to spread
    the institutional knowledge and processes a lot further than they
    are right now. The PyCon-Montreal crowd will be heavily involved
    as well.

    2. I will be working with Doug Napoleone and Eldarion, Inc to
    finalize a website maintenance contract for the 2012 website and
    codebase.  There will be monetary expenditure involved, and it
    will be part of my next report.

    3. Finalize milestones: We have a number of milestones (launching
    the site, CFP) which have been discussed. These are going to be
    more widely disseminated and finalized in the upcoming month. Our
    goal is a CFP by July/August. We already have sponsors ready to
    sign up with us for the 2012 conference, all we're waiting for
    are open books and a site.&quot;

The report was closed with an explanation of his currently tabled activities
Jesse said:

    &quot;1. I am supposed to make a flight to Santa Clara and Montreal
    for site surveys; due to personal reasons I will not be able to
    do so until later this summer.&quot;

`5.7   Sprint Committee <#id12>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

J. Noller, Sprint Committee Chair, provided a summary of activities for
this month, he reported:

&quot;We approved one new sprint this month for DjangoCon Europe 2011, which
we received a request for late last month. We're supplying them with
$300 USD for a two day sprint after the conference in Amsterdam.&quot;

On his report of new activities for the month, J. Noller said: 

&quot;We have the announcement for the DjangoCon sponsorship written and
ready to post, but we're waiting on their announcement of the selected
talks in order to have more buzz for sprint sponsorships and their
conference.

Waiting to hear back from Kurt on an update to our accounting, as
we've processed a number of reimbursements lately and have the PyCon
sprint expenses to account for as well.&quot;

`6   Final PyCon-related Expenses <#id13>`_
-------------------------------------------

The board discussed and approved $3,000 for final PyCon-related expenses 

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF provide funding of $3,000 in discretionary
    spending to allow Van Lindberg to provide the monies for the final
    PyCon-related expenses.

Approved, 7-0-0.

`7   SciPy 2011 Conference Funding <#id14>`_
--------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF provide a grant of $2,000 to sponsor the
    SciPy 2011 Conference to be held in Austin, Texas on July 11 through
    the 16th.

Approved, 8-0-0.

`8   2011 Libre Graphics Meeting (LGM) Funding <#id15>`_
--------------------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF provide funding of $1,500 to the GNOME
    Foundation for the 2011 Libre Graphics Meeting to be held in Montreal.

Approved, 7-0-1.

`9   2011 PyArgentina Conference Funding <#id16>`_
--------------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF provide funding of $1,500 USD to sponsor
    the PyArgentina Conference (requested by Juan Rodr?guez Monti).

Approved, 6-0-2.

`10   Appointment of 2011/2012 PSF Committee Chairs <#id17>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------

The board re-appointed three committee chairs: 

    **RESOLVED**, that David Mertz be appointed chairman of the Trademarks
    Committee for 2011/2012.

Approved, 8-0-1. 

    **RESOLVED**, that Sean Reifschneider be appointed chairman of the
    Infrastructure Committee for 2011/2012.

Approved, 9-0-0. 

    **RESOLVED**, that Jesse Noller be appointed chairman of the Sprints
    Committee for 2011/2012.

Approved, 8-0-1.

`11   Procedures Used to Appointment the 2011/2012 PSF Committee Members <#id18>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the reappointment of the individual members of the
    Trademarks Committee, the Infrastructure Committee and the Sprints
    Committee for the term 2010/2011 be delegated to the Chairman of the
    Board based on the proposals by the chairmen of the respective
    committees in accordance with section 6.4 of the bylaws.

Approved, 8-0-0.

`12   2011 Frank Willison Award Nomination <#id19>`_
----------------------------------------------------

A nominee for the 2011 Frank Willison Award was selected. 

**RESOLVED**, that the 2011 Frank Willison Award be awarded
to Georg Brandl. The award was initially announced at the 2011
EuroPython Conference.

Approved, 7-0-1.

`13   Other Business <#id20>`_
------------------------------

`13.1   PSF Seeks an Assistant Treasurer <#id21>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Board members discussed the need for an active Assistant Treasurer and
will be looking for someone to fill the position soon.

`14   Adjournment <#id22>`_
---------------------------

S. Holden adjourned the meeting
at 17:08 UTC.