The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors 

July 18, 2011

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat beginning at 16:00 UTC, 18
July 2011. Steve Holden presided at the meeting. Pat Campbell prepared
the minutes.

All votes are reported in the form &quot;*Y-N-A*&quot; (*in favor ??? opposed ???
abstentions*; e.g. &quot;5-1-2&quot; means &quot;5 in favor, 1 opposed, and 2
abstentions&quot;).

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#minutes-of-past-meetings>`_

- `3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#votes-taken-between-meetings>`_

- `4   Treasurer Report <#treasurer-report>`_

- `5   Progress Reports <#progress-reports>`_- `5.1   Communication Status <#communication-status>`_  - `5.2   Honorary Associate Membership WebPages/Links <#honorary-associate-membership-webpages-links>`_  - `5.3   Infrastructure Committee <#infrastructure-committee>`_  - `5.4   Marketing Material <#marketing-material>`_  - `5.5   Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront <#moving-pypi-to-amazon-cloudfront>`_  - `5.6   PyCon Chair <#pycon-chair>`_  - `5.7   Sprint Committee <#sprint-committee>`_  - `5.8   Trademarks Committee (TMC) <#trademarks-committee-tmc>`_  - `5.9   Outreach and Education Committee (new) <#outreach-and-education-committee-new>`_

- `6   PyCon Ireland 2011 Funding <#pycon-ireland-2011-funding>`_

- `7   PyCon DE 2011 Funding <#pycon-de-2011-funding>`_

- `8   Official Resignation of James Tauber <#official-resignation-of-james-tauber>`_

- `9   Other Business <#other-business>`_- `9.1   Contractor to Maintenance python.org <#contractor-to-maintenance-python-org>`_  - `9.2   Outreach & Education Committee's Authority to Allocate Grants <#outreach-education-committee-s-authority-to-allocate-grants>`_

- `10   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Steve Holden, Marc-Andre Lemburg, Martin von L?wis [arrived at
12:09], David Mertz, Doug Napoleone, Tim Peters, Allison Randal, Jeff
Rush, Greg Stein, and Gloria Willadsen. Also in attendance were Kurt
Kaiser (Treasurer), and Pat Campbell (Secretary & Administrator).

`2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#id2>`_
--------------------------------------

The 27 June 2011 Board meeting minutes were voted on and approved. 

Approved, 8-0-1.

`3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#id3>`_
------------------------------------------

There were no votes taken between meetings.

`4   Treasurer Report <#id4>`_
------------------------------

The monthly Treasurer's Report was provided to Board members by K.
Kaiser prior to the Board meeting and produced from Quickbooks Online.

Here is an exerpt from the treasurer's report on a few of the activities
the treasurer has been focused on:

&quot;YTD income was up by 14K in June.  Please refer to the June P&L for the
full details.  Some highlights:

    AR still reflects the 48K PyCon room commissions due to us.  All PyCon
    Sponsor invoices have now been collected.

    We paid the Hyatt invoices in June.  AP is back to 22K.  PyCon 2011
    accounting is completed.

    Donations for the month were $1,654. 

    Outside Expenses: 

        Wendroff           $1,150

Kurt concludes his report by revealing the financial business items he
plans to continue to focus his attention on, he said:

&quot;My focus is on PSF Sponsor invoicing, Federal taxes, the Associate
Member program, AR and AP reduction.&quot;

Board Discussion: 

S. Holden: &quot;[K. Kaiser] how do you see our cashflow going over the next
three months?&quot;

K. Kaiser: &quot;I think we are in good shape, especially once we get the 2011
PSF invoices out.&quot;

`5   Progress Reports <#id5>`_
------------------------------

The following board reports were submitted to the board mailing list
one week prior to this month's meeting. Please see a summary of each
board report listed below and a possible board discussion at the end
of the report(s):

`5.1   Communication Status <#id6>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

D. Hellmann, Communication Officer, reported on new activities for the
month. The list of activities showed the following:

    - Free Tickets for PyNZ      `http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/06/free-tickets-for-pynz.html  <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/06/free-tickets-for-pynz.html>`_

    - Tell Us About Your User Group      `http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/06/tell-us-about-your-user-group.html  <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/06/tell-us-about-your-user-group.html>`_      Post from Jessica McKellar about the survey for user group organizers.

As far as the ongoing projects for the month are concerned, he reported: 

    &quot;We do have a couple of topics in our backlog, so I will be working on
    finding additional writers.&quot;

For tabled activities, D. Hellmann reported: 

    - Writing about new PyCon website software.

    - Paulo Nuin is working on a post about the PyPI mirroring project.

`5.2   Honorary Associate Membership WebPages/Links <#id7>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

P. Campbell, Honorary Associate Membership (HAM) WebPages Start-up
Project, reported on the current issues or blockages the project may
be faced with by saying:

&quot;We have been in the technical phase of the Honorary Associate
Membership (HAM) Project for the past few months. However, we
are beginning to see incredible movement toward getting our first HAM
subscription. We are almost there!!

So, hopefully, our first HAM membership signup will soon be on
the way once the HAM membership signup webpage is completed.

As far as continued activities from last month are concerned, she reported: 

    &quot;Since Kurt Kaiser, our treasurer, has been able to devote more time
    to the HAM project implementation and setup, we should be able to
    set the launch date soon.

    Please see the message from Kurt Kaiser?s June 2011 treasurer?s
    report regarding the current status of the technical phase of the HAM
    program implementation and maintenance&quot;:

    &quot;?Associate Member program: 

        Integrated CiviContribute Python conference sponsor support using
        PyTexas as an example.  Tested the payment acknowledgement and
        objective tracking system against a wider range of input than
        previously, which exposed several deficiencies needing correction.
        Fixed those and released the PyTexas sponsor payment collection
        webpages to production, integrated into the PyTexas wiki.

        Next task: HAM signup webpages.

    My focus is on PSF Sponsor invoicing, Federal taxes, the Associate
    Member program, AR and AP reduction.
    It was necessary to accomplish the CiviContribute milestone first,
    because signing up Associate members online via CiviMember requires the
    ability to collect membership fees online.  The capability of repetitive
    fee collection allows automatic renewal of membership, if desired by the
    Associate.?&quot;

`5.3   Infrastructure Committee <#id8>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

S. Reifschneider, Infrastructure Committee Chair, reported on
continued activities from last month when he wrote:

    - Arc Riley is taking over the DNS transfer activities of pound-python.  (I have not heard a status update on this, I will contact him about it.)

As far as new activities for the month, planned activities for next month, or ongoing
projects are concerned, Sean reported:

    - None.

`5.4   Marketing Material <#id9>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

M.A.Lemburg, Marketing Material Project Manager, reported progress
on the project:

&quot;We are still in the content acquisition phase and have started
following up to our new contacts. Thanks again to all who have
helped by introducing us to the various projects and companies.

EuroPython was very helpful in finding new projects and contacts.
We now have over 60 leads to follow up with.

The content acquisition process itself has turned out to be
rather slow and very email intense.&quot;

M.A.Lemburg also reported on issues with the project, he said: 

&quot;As always, additional help in finding such interesting projects
would be greatly appreciated. Please consider signing up as
contact scout:

    `http://brochure.getpython.info/signup/contact-scout-signup <http://brochure.getpython.info/signup/contact-scout-signup>`_

and, if you're interested in the project, please consider signing
up to our newsletter:

    `http://brochure.getpython.info/ <http://brochure.getpython.info/>`_

Thanks !&quot; 

As far as future plans are concerned, he reported: 

&quot;If the project goes well, we'll follow up with a Python flyer,
translated versions of the brochure and also consider creating
marketing material more targeted at specific user groups or
application fields.

In the long run, we'd also like to take the idea of producing
marketing material beyond printed material and develop booth
setups, giveaways, CDs, etc. to support conference organizers and
local user groups wishing to promote Python at their events.&quot;

`5.5   Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront <#id10>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The project leader, M.A. Lemburg, Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront,
reported on progress for the month:

&quot;The project is currently on hold, since the team members don't have
time to put into this.

If anyone wants to join, please let me know. 

In terms of having any issues surrounding his project, M. A.
Lemburg reported no issues except that he just does not have enough
time to devote to his Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront project.

M. A. Lemburg also reported on future plans for the
project:

&quot;Check to see whether a trigger based approach to S3 syncing
wouldn't be easier to implement right from the start.&quot;

`5.6   PyCon Chair <#id11>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

J. Noller, PyCon Chair, provided us with information on when and where
the next two PyCon US conferences will be held. Please see below:

PyCon 2012: March 7th ? 15th, Santa Clara, CA
PyCon 2013: March 11th ? 21st, Santa Clara, CA

As far as the continued activities from last month, he reported: 

    - Getting the website online - almost ready for the big unveiling, getting the initial content in there has been a bit of a bear due to personal issues (me being offline/unable to coordinate). Will launch within 24-48 hours and we will immediately begin signing up (and invoicing) sponsors.

    - Initialization of the PyCon 2012 budget and ledger - this should be completed thanks to Ewa.

    - 2012 budget is almost completed (may be done by board meeting) with significant help from Van Lindberg and Ewa.

    - Adoption of an explicit code of conduct for PyCon 2012 - TBD

Jesse also reported on the new activities for the month. He said: 

    - I reached out to the outreach and education committee for specific recommendations about outreach and diversity initiatives PyCon can undertake as part of the process this year.

    - Negotiations with CTE will be accelerating within the next month.

    - Negotiations for AV/Recording contracts will begin this month. AV/Recording is a significant cost for the conference - there will be some potentially heated discussions around this subject.

    - Preparation for the Call for Proposals (Tim Lesher, JKM) for 8/1 launch.

The last two PyCon US items reported by Jesse were the &quot;planned for next
month&quot; where he provided a list of the current Heads/Staff for PyCon 2012.

    Chair: Jesse Noller
    Co-Chair: Yannick Gingras
    Accountant/Sponsors: Van Lindberg

    Event Coordinator: Ewa Jodlowska/CTE
    Public Relations Lead: Unknown

    Tech Lead: Doug Napoleone
    Tech Co-Lead: Noah Kantrowtiz

    Program Committee Chair: Jacob Kaplan-Moss
    Program Committee Co-Chair: Tim Lesher

    Tutorials Chair: Stuart Williams
    Tutorials Co-Chair: Greg Lindstrom

    Financial Aide Chair: TBD
    Financial Aide Co-Chair: TBD

However, under &quot;tabled activities,&quot; he provided the following: 

    1. I am supposed to make a flight to Santa Clara and Montreal for site
    surveys; due to personal reasons I will not be able to do so until
    later this summer.

`5.7   Sprint Committee <#id12>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

J. Noller, Sprint Committee Chair, provided a summary of activities for
this month, he reported:

&quot;No new sprints to add to the calendar, but we're processing the
reimbursements of last month's sprints. Two have been paid and one
still owes an invoice.&quot;

As far as the continued activities for the month, he said: 

&quot;The PyLadies sprint was wrapped up and we wrote about it, but they
haven't invoiced us for any reimbursement. I'll be contacting them
shortly to square that up and get them reimbursed.&quot;

On his report of the new activities for the month, J. Noller said: 

&quot;Closed the books on two sprints by completing the reimbursements for
the PEP-382 and Djangocon sprints. With the recent influx of sprints,
I got a small start on the ledger that was mentioned some time ago in
order to keep up to date on everything, and to supplement Kurt's
payment reports that we receive.&quot;

`5.8   Trademarks Committee (TMC) <#id13>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

D. Mertz, Trademarks Committee Chair, reported on issues & blockages
for the month. He said:

    - Have asked PSF counsel several times about whether assignment of derived logos to the PSF might allow us to grant broader permission (for what would then, hypothetically) be PSF trademarks.  Committee members have opined both directions on whether this would assuage dilution concern, but we really need legal advice.  Unfortunately, Van hasn't found time to develop an answer to this.

As far as reporting on new activities, however, he provided the following
list:

    - Finished resolving question from Ahmad Sofyan <;`asofyan@gmail.com <mailto:asofyan%40gmail.com>`_> about Indonesian domain names that include the term 'Python'.  I let him know we were OK to authorize it, but in the meanwhile he had clarified the issue with the CCTLD registry and the PSF does not itself need to write anything to the registry, Sofyan and his colleagues simply have to state that the PSF is OK with it (which we are).

    - Sent a scheduled response to Syed Naqvi <;`syed@openclothes.org <mailto:syed%40openclothes.org>`_> to see if they were still interested in continuing authorization for producing Python log branded clothing, per Pat Campbell's clever calendar tickler.  No response received, but if he gets back, we can extend the authorization.

    - Radomir Dopieralski <;`radomir.dopieralski@stxnext.pl <mailto:radomir.dopieralski%40stxnext.pl>`_> wished to use the overly generic name &quot;Python Software House&quot; which we expressed concern about.  As a result, they renamed the company &quot;STX Next - Python Experts.&quot;  They also developed an attractive logo based on the new name, using the Flux Regular font to retain the connection with Python logos (but in a completely non-infringing way).  I did mention that they need to work out permission for the font with its holder, and he was aware of that concern (but it's not within PSF purview to enforce such things).

    - Followup with Greg Wilson to authorize an inspired-by but not derived logo for Software Carpentry.  Original email somehow had gone missing, but he was happy to be re-sent the positive word.

    - Two related and unfortunately open issues.  We told both Diego Sarmentero <;`diego.sarmentero@gmail.com <mailto:diego.sarmentero%40gmail.com>`_> (of NINJA-IDE) and Brad Allen <;`bradallen137@gmail.com <mailto:bradallen137%40gmail.com>`_> (PyTexas) that logos they made were dilutive. Both of them have pushed back a bit hoping to find some way to allow authorization, with PyTexas folks suggesting assignment.  I told Sarmentero that this MIGHT be an option if I could get legal opinion that it was.  But no word for PSF counsel on the issue.

David also reported on &quot;other new activities.&quot; He said: 

    - James Costa <;`james@thephuse.com <mailto:james%40thephuse.com>`_> made some improved proposals for HAM logos, that were discussed on the Board list as well as posted to Trademarks.  The consensus seems to be that we should accept one or more of the 6 proposed designs; we need to pin down which ones to actually use.

    - Some general discussion of ways to authorize broader use of derived logos. Steve Holden suggested that a &quot;logo-in-logo&quot; style might allow more, but most members (including me) didn't feel that would help the dilution concern (much).

He closed his report with an activity planned for next month. He said: 

    - Get back with `Michael_Endres@scee.net <mailto:Michael_Endres%40scee.net>`_ to let him know that color and shape derived versions of the logo suggested for PlayStation?Home &quot;internal use&quot; are not really allowable.

`5.9   Outreach and Education Committee (new) <#id14>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

D. Mertz, Outreach and Education Committee Chair, reported that there were no issues
& blockages for the committee's first month.

However, he reported on a list of new activities for the month. He said: 

    - Initial introductions of committee members

        - Development of a mission statement, adopted after joint editing and by consensus:

        .. code-block::

            The mission of the Outreach and Education Committee is to increase
            the number of Python users, especially in under-represented demographics.
            The Committee will identify key initiatives and programs toward this goal
            that the PSF can assist in, fund or help guide.

            The Committee will make recommendations to the membership, the board and
            its committees; initiate and coordinate outreach projects; and act as a
            guiding hand for the PSF in this domain.

            The committee shall not be an arbiter of controversial language or
            situations in Python communities, conferences, projects, or publications.
            It exists to undertake new initiatives and has no mandate to evaluate or
            criticize existing content and activities.

    - Contacted Sarah Riggs <;`smriggs@live.unc.edu <mailto:smriggs%40live.unc.edu>`_> who is doing an academic &quot;Gender gap in FLOSS study&quot; to express interest in future cooperation between and her results and the committee.

    - Developed (really Audrey Roy's work) the proposal for the Board to fund PyCon AU supplementary grants for gender diversity.  That proposal is separately before the Board.

    - By unanimous consent, the Chair adopted the following decision procedure for committee decisions:

        .. code-block::

            The PSF Outreach and Education Committee may adopt resolutions by email
            at any time, subject to the following procedures:

            (1) Any Member may make a motion to the Committee, using the
                published Committee mailing list address.

            (2) For a motion to pass, a &quot;super-quorum&quot; of 3/4 of the Members
                MUST participate in the email vote by stating 'Aye', 'Nay' or
                'Abstain' to a proposed motion, with the vote appended to a
                quoted version of the exact motion proposed. In the case of a
                Committee of 8 Members, this will require 6 Members to vote by
                email.

        - For a motion to pass, an absolute majority of the whole Board MUST vote 'Aye'. In the case of a Committee of 8 Members, this will require 5 Aye votes.

        - The proposing Member SHALL set a specific date and time for expiration of a vote. The expiration date/time typically should be at least 72 hours after the motion is proposed and shall not be less than 24 hours after the motion is proposed. Votes are completed once all Members have voted even if this occurs before the expiration of the vote, or also if sufficient votes have been case to carry a motion regardless of the direction of further votes.

`6   PyCon Ireland 2011 Funding <#id15>`_
-----------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF offers a grant of US$1500 to the organizers
    of the PyCon Ireland 2011 conference.

Approved, 9-0-1.

`7   PyCon DE 2011 Funding <#id16>`_
------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF offers a grant of US$1500 to the organizers
    of the PyCon DE 2011 conference.

Approved, 10-0-1.

`8   Official Resignation of James Tauber <#id17>`_
---------------------------------------------------

The board discussed and accepted the resignation of James Tauber as a
PSF Director. James Tauber will not be an active member of the PSF
Board of Directors for the remainder of the 2011-2012 term.

`9   Other Business <#id18>`_
-----------------------------

`9.1   Contractor to Maintenance python.org <#id19>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The board briefly discussed the need to find a contractor to provide the
maintenance of python.org. They are currently considering a few candidates
before any offer can be sought.

`9.2   Outreach & Education Committee's Authority to Allocate Grants <#id20>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The board's initial discussion on the PyCon AU Supplementary grant proposal
aka PyCon AU Gender Diversity Grant program, transformed itself into a
discussion that would give the Outreach & Education Committee the authority
to provide and distribute funding to diversity programs such as the PyCon AU
Diversity Grant program.

    **RESOLVED**, that the Outreach and Education Committee shall have
    authority to    authorize PSF expenditure of up to US$5000 during the
    calendar year of 2011, to be spent and divided as the Committee determines
    best assists in promoting diversity with Python communities. Any commitment
    of PSF funds by the Committee shall be subject to the voting procedure
    adopted by the Committee and set forth in its July 2011 Committee report
    (`http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/psf-board/2011-July/015026.html <http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/psf-board/2011-July/015026.html>`_)

Vote deferred to email.

`10   Adjournment <#id21>`_
---------------------------

S. Holden adjourned the meeting at
16:59 UTC.