The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors 

September 19, 2011

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat beginning at 16:00 UTC, 19
September 2011. Steve Holden presided at the meeting. Pat Campbell
prepared the minutes.

All votes are reported in the form &quot;*Y-N-A*&quot; (*in favor ??? opposed ???
abstentions*; e.g. &quot;5-1-2&quot; means &quot;5 in favor, 1 opposed, and 2
abstentions&quot;).

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#minutes-of-past-meetings>`_

- `3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#votes-taken-between-meetings>`_

- `4   Treasurer Report <#treasurer-report>`_

- `5   Progress Reports <#progress-reports>`_- `5.1   Communication Status <#communication-status>`_  - `5.2   Honorary Associate Membership WebPages/Links <#honorary-associate-membership-webpages-links>`_  - `5.3   Marketing Material <#marketing-material>`_  - `5.4   Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront <#moving-pypi-to-amazon-cloudfront>`_  - `5.5   PyCon Chair <#pycon-chair>`_  - `5.6   Trademarks Committee (TMC) <#trademarks-committee-tmc>`_  - `5.7   Outreach and Education Committee <#outreach-and-education-committee>`_

- `6   PyCon PL 2011 Conference Funding <#pycon-pl-2011-conference-funding>`_

- `7   PyTexas 2011 Conference Funding <#pytexas-2011-conference-funding>`_

- `8   Future PyCon Conferences Granted to China Python User Group <#future-pycon-conferences-granted-to-china-python-user-group>`_

- `9   Grant Proposal to Port WebOB to Python 3 <#grant-proposal-to-port-webob-to-python-3>`_

- `10   Official Resignation of Greg Stein <#official-resignation-of-greg-stein>`_

- `11   2011 - Q3 Community Service Award Nominations <#q3-community-service-award-nominations>`_

- `12   Other Business <#other-business>`_

- `13   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Steve Holden, Marc-Andre Lemburg, Martin von L?wis, David Mertz,
Doug Napoleone, Jesse Noller, Tim Peters, Allison Randal, Jeff Rush, and
Gloria Willadsen. Also in attendance was Kurt Kaiser (Treasurer).

`2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#id2>`_
--------------------------------------

The 15 August 2011 Board meeting minutes were voted on and approved. 

Approved, 10-0-0.

`3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#id3>`_
------------------------------------------

There were no votes taken between meetings.

`4   Treasurer Report <#id4>`_
------------------------------

The monthly Treasurer's Report was provided to Board members by K.
Kaiser prior to the Board meeting and produced from Quickbooks Online.

Here is an exerpt from the treasurer's report on a few of the activities
the treasurer has been focused on:

&quot;YTD income was down by 10K in August.  Please refer to the P&L for the
full details.  Some highlights:

    AR is up by 98K due to PyCon 2012 Sponsor invoicing activity.  We
    received payment for the Hyatt PyCon 2011 room commissions due to us.

    Donations for the month were $2,095. 

    **MISSING**

We began invoicing over 70 PyCon 2012 Sponsors.  At this time, we're
about halfway through the invoicing process, as can be seen by the 155K
increase in Deferred Revenue.  Payments are rolling in, accounting for
the increase in our checking account balance.&quot;

Kurt concludes his report with a list of financial business items he will
be focused on, he said:

&quot;My focus is on PSF Sponsor invoicing, Federal taxes, the Associate
Member program, AR and AP reduction.  Looking into a server certificate
for mail.python.org.&quot;

Board Discussion: 

J. Noller: &quot;&quot;I am digging into the CTE issues cited in the treasurer's report:
&quot;AR still reflects the 48K PyCon room commissions due to us.&quot; We have multiple
calls out to CTE.&quot;&quot;

`5   Progress Reports <#id5>`_
------------------------------

The following board reports were submitted to the board mailing list
one week prior to this month's meeting. Please see a summary of each
board report listed below and a possible board discussion at the end
of the report(s):

`5.1   Communication Status <#id6>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

D. Hellmann, Communication Officer, reported on continued activities from
last month. He said:

    1. Send announcement email about the blog to various mailing lists
    (c.l.py, c.l.py.announce, etc.).

    *No progress.*

Doug also reported on new activities for the month. His list of activities
revealed the following:

    - PyArgentina Grant      Written by Mike Driscoll      Posted 15 Aug:  `http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/08/psf-grants-pyargentina-us1500.html  <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/08/psf-grants-pyargentina-us1500.html>`_

    - PyCon Ireland Grant      Written by Mike Driscoll      Posted 2 Sept:  `http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/09/psf-grants-pycon-ireland-us1500.html  <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/09/psf-grants-pycon-ireland-us1500.html>`_

    - The twitter team has been busy this month monitoring and re-tweeting information about PyCon, especially announcements of sponsors and deadlines.

As far as the ongoing projects for the month are concerned, he reported: 

    - Recruiting other people to help write for the blog.      A few volunteers have expressed interest, but things are getting off to a slow start.  I hope to have some more interesting topics to give them after the August Board meeting.

    - Mike Driscoll is working on a retrospective post summarizing all of the funding we have provided for conferences over the last year. We will wait to publish until closer to the end of 2011.

For tabled activities, D. Hellmann said: 

    - PyCon video equipment loan/rental program post      There was some discussion of offering the PyCon video equipment to PUGs for their meetings, but the mechanism to do it isn't in place, yet.

`5.2   Honorary Associate Membership WebPages/Links <#id7>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Board Discussion Only: 

K. Kaiser: &quot;I could use some help on the text - specifically, a
thank-you letter from the chairman -- outside of that, we are indeed
close.&quot;

S. Holden: &quot;I'll be happy to provide that. Is there any web work
required? Can we get help?

K. Kaiser: &quot;No, no web work. There's a good possibility it will go
on line this week.

`5.3   Marketing Material <#id8>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

M.A.Lemburg, Marketing Material Project Manager, reported on the progress
of this project when he said:

&quot;We are making slow progress in getting success stories, image data,
quotes, publication approvals, etc. lined up. Following up to
over 60 leads is turning out to be a major piece of work.

We could use some help from people who are good at email
communication and can keep in touch with leads until they
deliver.

On text and layout side, we are making progress and will
have a meeting next week to start putting everything together.&quot;

M.A.Lemburg also reported on issues with the project, he said: 

&quot;As always, additional help in finding such interesting projects
would be greatly appreciated. Please consider signing up as
contact scout:

    `http://brochure.getpython.info/signup/contact-scout-signup <http://brochure.getpython.info/signup/contact-scout-signup>`_

and, if you're interested in the project, please consider signing
up to our newsletter:

    `http://brochure.getpython.info/ <http://brochure.getpython.info/>`_

Thanks !&quot; 

As far as future plans are concerned, he reported: 

&quot;If the project goes well, we'll follow up with a Python flyer,
translated versions of the brochure and also consider creating
marketing material more targeted at specific user groups or
application fields.

In the long run, we'd also like to take the idea of producing
marketing material beyond printed material and develop booth
setups, giveaways, CDs, etc. to support conference organizers and
local user groups wishing to promote Python at their events.&quot;

`5.4   Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront <#id9>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The project leader, M.A. Lemburg, Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront,
reported on progress for the month:

&quot;The project is currently on hold, since the team members don't have
time to put into this.&quot;

In terms of having any issues surrounding his project, M. A.
Lemburg reported no issues except one: he said, he just does not have
enough time to devote to his Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront project.

- - Lemburg also reported on future plans for the project:

&quot;Check to see whether a trigger based approach to S3 syncing
wouldn't be easier to implement right from the start.&quot;

`5.5   PyCon Chair <#id10>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

J. Noller, PyCon Chair, provided us with information on when and where
the next two PyCon US conferences will be held, in addition to the web
location of the official PyCon 2012. Please see below:

PyCon 2012: March 7th ? 15th, Santa Clara, CA
PyCon 2013: March 11th ? 21st, Santa Clara, CA
Official Site: `http://us.pycon.org/2012 <http://us.pycon.org/2012>`_

As far as the continued activities from last month, he reported: 

    1. Sponsors continue to line up for PyCon 2012: We have now achieved a record
    50 sponsors signed up, almost all of which have been invoiced, some of which
    have already paid. This is amazing, and sets us in an excellent position
    financially. I continue to drive hard on sponsorship; and I have at least
    an addition 10 sponsors pending. I am driving hard on getting fresh leads for
    potential sponsors.

    2. The budget was approved in its current form; and we continue to update the
    current position(s) as required. Our current outlook is extremely positive
    solely based on the sponsor revenue. A note on the current level will be sent
    to the private board list.

    3. The call for proposals was issued, has been under way and we are seeing a
    steady trickle of high quality submissions from the community.

    4. We are still waiting on AV/Recording vendor responses to our request for
    quotes. This is a concern - I'd like to lock these contracts down quickly, but
    can not make the bidding parties move more quickly.

    - We are still negotiating room commission rates with the Hyatt.

Jesse also reported on the new activities for the month. He said: 

    - CTE has been contacted about negotiations and discussions around 2012.

    2. We are doing a massive press/blog/email push in the upcoming month to push
    the call for proposals. Brian Curtin is coordinating this effort.

    3. I am flying out to Santa Clara next week (Sept 21st-23rd) for the on site
    visit and discussions with the Hyatt and convention center staff.

    4. Activate the Program Committee - I am pushing hard to get the volunteers and
    staff activated and engaged.

    5. Management of the program guide has been passed off to Yannick, Ewa, Van and
    Doug N.

    6. We have announced the first keynote speaker: Paul Graham of Y Combinator, as
    well as the first Plenary speaker - David Beazley. Both announcements have
    generated an amazing amount of buzz and positive energy for the conference.
    `http://pycon.blogspot.com/2011/09/announcing-first-pycon-2012-plenary.html <http://pycon.blogspot.com/2011/09/announcing-first-pycon-2012-plenary.html>`_
    `http://pycon.blogspot.com/2011/09/announcing-first-pycon-2012-keynote.html <http://pycon.blogspot.com/2011/09/announcing-first-pycon-2012-keynote.html>`_

    7. Announced and deployed the new PyCon Jobs Fair page and sponsor benefit -
    `http://us.pycon.org/2012/sponsors/jobs/ <http://us.pycon.org/2012/sponsors/jobs/>`_
    `http://pycon.blogspot.com/2011/09/announcing-pycon-2012-fair-page-sponsor.html <http://pycon.blogspot.com/2011/09/announcing-pycon-2012-fair-page-sponsor.html>`_

The last two PyCon US items reported on by Jesse were the &quot;planned for next
month&quot; where he included a list of the current Heads/Staff for PyCon 2012.

    1. Reach out to PyLadies, and other organizations to help put together a plan
    for talk mentorship; and a potential dedicated diversity grant fund for PyCon.

    2. Coordinate with Eldarion to deploy the review system for the program
    committees.

    - Activate and push on volunteer leadership roles for the staff.

    4. Push on blog posts from the community and volunteer staff to help build more
    buzz around PyCon and the call for proposals.

    - Continue sponsor drive.

Current Heads/Staff for PyCon 2012 

    Chair: Jesse Noller
    Co-Chair: Yannick Gingras
    Accountant/Sponsors: Van Lindberg

    Event Coordinator: Ewa Jodlowska/CTE
    Public Relations Lead: Brian Curtin

    Tech Lead: Doug Napoleone
    Tech Co-Lead: Noah Kantrowtiz

    Volunteer Lead: TBD 

    Program Committee Chair: Jacob Kaplan-Moss
    Program Committee Co-Chair: Tim Lesher

    Tutorials Chair: Stuart Williams
    Tutorials Co-Chair: TBD

    Posters Chair: Vern Ceder
    Tutorials Co-Chair: Zac Miller

    Financial Aide Chair: Peter Kropf
    Financial Aide Co-Chair: TBD

However, under &quot;tabled activities,&quot; he provided the following: 

    None

`5.6   Trademarks Committee (TMC) <#id11>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

D. Mertz, Trademarks Committee Chair, reported on issues & blockages for
the month. He said:

    - Have asked PSF counsel several times about whether assignment of derived logos to the PSF might allow us to grant broader permission (for what would then, hypothetically) be PSF trademarks.  Committee members have opined both directions on whether this would assuage dilution concern, but we really need legal advice.  Unfortunately, Van hasn't found time to develop an answer to this.

As far as reporting on new activities, however, he provided the following
list of items:

    - Late July: Discussion of a logo at `http://py.codeconf.com/ <http://py.codeconf.com/>`_ that committee ultimately decided was &quot;inspired by but not derived&quot; from a trademarks perspective.  However, looking at the current site, it appears that they have yet another logo variant; and the latest seems to raise a new concern.  So I'll send that back to the committee for discussion.

    - Early August: Marc-Andre responded on my behalf to Lumentica, LLC to indicate that their use was purely nominative.

    - Early August: Let Long Duong <;`long@studioart.org <mailto:long%40studioart.org>`_> know that we did not have a trademark interest in the name &quot;PyCamp&quot; and that it follows the &quot;PyWhatever&quot; pattern of many projects.

    - Early August: Let Adrianna Tan <;`adrianna@pentopixel.net <mailto:adrianna%40pentopixel.net>`_> who runs a Singapore Python User Group know that a derived logo that slightly modified both shape and substantially modified colors would be acceptable if shape was preserved, but colors could be modified to fit with broader design.

    - Early August: Clarified nominative use for Jonathan Baudoin <;`jonathan.baudoin@simple-it.fr <mailto:jonathan.baudoin%40simple-it.fr>`_> who wanted to use Python logo on book covers.

    - Early August: Let Yung-Yu Chen <;`yyc@solvcon.net <mailto:yyc%40solvcon.net>`_> know that a derived logo requested for a Taiwanese user group was a dilutive variation, and suggested variations that would avoid dilution (thanks again to MAL on this one).  However, I did let Yung-Yu know that the PSF trademark does not strictly extend to Taiwan, so they are technically permitted to make what derivations they want for use within that jurisdiction; he showed understanding and their group decided to create an alternate non-derived logo nonetheless.

    - Late August: Clarified for Larry Hastings <;`larry@hastings.org <mailto:larry%40hastings.org>`_> that his &quot;Radio Free Python&quot; was nominative use of the word mark.

    - Late August: Jess Noller made a hush-hush request for use of logo for commercial PyCon-tie-in items.  While there wasn't a lot of data provided the &quot;we trust Jesse&quot; principle prevails.

    - Early September: Clarified nominative use in conference badges for Sandeep Dedage <;`Sandeep.Dedage@newport.com <mailto:Sandeep.Dedage%40newport.com>`_>.

    - Early September: Clarified for Nick Chadwick <;`chadnickbok@gmail.com <mailto:chadnickbok%40gmail.com>`_> that his &quot;LetsPython&quot; name and unaltered logo were nominative use.

    - Mid September: Several &quot;Python in Debian&quot; project members submitted derived logos that modified the Python logo to combine it with the Debian logo in a dilutive way. We let them know that this derivation would not be permitted and they agreed to an alternate logo design that was not derived from our trademark.

    - Mid September: A complex issue came up with the book *Maya Python for Games and Film: A Complete Reference for Maya Python and the Maya Python API* using an dilutive derived logo.  Apparently this use came from an innocent confusion between author Adam Mechtley <;`adam.mechtley@gmail.com <mailto:adam.mechtley%40gmail.com>`_> (who contacted us) and his publisher Elsevier/Morgan-Kaufmann, in which they used an informal design suggestion of his without proper vetting.  Editor &quot;Lewin, Laura (ELS-BUR)&quot; <;`L.Lewin@Elsevier.com <mailto:L.Lewin%40Elsevier.com>`_> contacted me as well to work out a solution, which is changing the design for the second printing, but putting an apology notice on the website for the book to explain the inadvertent misuse.

David also reported on other new activities that are planned for next month. He 
said: 

    - Get back with `Michael_Endres@scee.net <mailto:Michael_Endres%40scee.net>`_ to let him know that color and shape derived versions of the logo suggested for PlayStation?Home &quot;internal use&quot; are not really allowable.

He also reported on &quot;ongoing projects.&quot; He said: 

    - James Costa <;`james@thephuse.com <mailto:james%40thephuse.com>`_> made some improved proposals for HAM logos, that were discussed on the Board list as well as posted to Trademarks.  The consensus seems to be that we should accept one or more of the 6 proposed designs; we need to pin down which ones to actually use.

`5.7   Outreach and Education Committee <#id12>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

D. Mertz, Outreach and Education Committee Chair, reported that there were no issues
& blockages for the month.

However, he reported on a list of new activities. He said: 

    - Wished to direct diversity funds for Pycon AU, but unfortunately timing of board authorization didn't work out to allow this to happen.

    - Gained authority to authorize up to $5000 to diversity efforts by board motion passed in August IRC meeting (after missing quorum requirement for email voting earlier).

David also reported on the activities that are planned for next month. He said: 

    - Confer IRC meeting to discuss future allocation of available diversity/outreach funding authority.

`6   PyCon PL 2011 Conference Funding <#id13>`_
-----------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF offers a grant of USD 750 to the PyCon PL 2011
    organizers for the 2011 PyCon PL Conference to be held from September 22th to
    September 25th in Kielce, Poland.

Approved, 10-0-0.

`7   PyTexas 2011 Conference Funding <#id14>`_
----------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF offers a grant of USD 750 to the PyTexas 2011
    organizers for the 2011 PyTexas Conference to be held from September 10-11th
    in College Station, Texas, USA.

Approved, 10-0-0.

`8   Future PyCon Conferences Granted to China Python User Group <#id15>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF provide permission to the China Python User Group
    to use the PyCon name in support of their efforts to organize a PyCon China
    conference.

Approved, 10-0-0.

`9   Grant Proposal to Port WebOB to Python 3 <#id16>`_
-------------------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF provide grant funding of $3000 to Chris
    McDonough to port WebOB to Python 3 which is set to begin on
    10/01/2011 and finish on 10/31/2011. And, payment for his work shall
    be received on or before 11/30/2011.

Approved, 10-0-0.

`10   Official Resignation of Greg Stein <#id17>`_
--------------------------------------------------

The board discussed and accepted the resignation of Greg Stein as a
PSF Director. Greg Stein will not be an active member of the PSF
Board of Directors for the remainder of the 2011-2012 term.

`11   2011 - Q3 Community Service Award Nominations <#id18>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------

Nick Coghlan and Arc Riley were selected for the 2011-3rd Quarter
PSF Community Service Award.

    **RESOLVED**, that the 2011 - Q3 PSF Community Service Award
    be made to Nick Coghlan and Arc Riley.

Approved, 10-0-0.

`12   Other Business <#id19>`_
------------------------------

None

`13   Adjournment <#id20>`_
---------------------------

- Holden adjourned the meeting at 17:02 UTC.