The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors 

February 27, 2012

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat beginning at 16:00 UTC, 27
February 2012. Steve Holden presided at the meeting. Pat Campbell
prepared the minutes.

All votes are reported in the form &quot;*Y-N-A*&quot; (*in favor ??? opposed ???
abstentions*; e.g. &quot;5-1-2&quot; means &quot;5 in favor, 1 opposed, and 2
abstentions&quot;).

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#minutes-of-past-meetings>`_

- `3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#votes-taken-between-meetings>`_- `3.1   Storage Space for PyCon Video Archives <#storage-space-for-pycon-video-archives>`_

- `4   Treasurer Report <#treasurer-report>`_

- `5   Progress Reports <#progress-reports>`_- `5.1   Communication Status <#communication-status>`_  - `5.2   Honorary Associate Membership Program <#honorary-associate-membership-program>`_  - `5.3   Marketing Material <#marketing-material>`_  - `5.4   Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront <#moving-pypi-to-amazon-cloudfront>`_  - `5.5   PyCon Chair <#pycon-chair>`_  - `5.6   Current Heads/Staff for PyCon 2012 <#current-heads-staff-for-pycon-2012>`_

- `6   Manage Officer/Director Spending <#manage-officer-director-spending>`_

- `7   Administrator's Review <#administrator-s-review>`_

- `8   Community Service Award Nomination for 2012-Q1 <#community-service-award-nomination-for-2012-q1>`_

- `9   Adapt a New Official PSF Logo <#adapt-a-new-official-psf-logo>`_

- `10   Dyn Inc. for DNS Hosting <#dyn-inc-for-dns-hosting>`_

- `11   Other Business <#other-business>`_

- `12   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors (8 of ll) were present at
the meeting: Steve Holden, Marc-Andre Lemburg, Martin von L?wis, Doug
Napoleone [arrived at 12:05], Jesse Noller, Tim Peters, Allison Randall,
and Gloria Willadsen. Also in attendance were Kurt Kaiser (Treasurer)
and Pat Campbell (Secretary/Administrator).

`2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#id2>`_
--------------------------------------

The 16 January 2012 Board meeting minutes were voted on and approved. 

    **RESOLVED**, that the minutes at `http://mail.python.org/mailman/private <http://mail.python.org/mailman/private>`_
    /psf-board/2012-January/016184.html be accepted as a true and fair record
    of the meeting.

Approved, 6-0-1.

`3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#id3>`_
------------------------------------------

There was one (1) vote taken between meetings. 

`3.1   Storage Space for PyCon Video Archives <#id4>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The resolution below is scheduled to be amended during the next
board meeting which is scheduled for March 19, 2012. The PSF
will take full monetary responsibilities for the storage space.

    **RESOLVED**: That the Foundation spend a maximum of $5715.00 in purchasing a
    long term storage array for the video archives of past python conferences
    maintained by Carl Karsten. This array is to be jointly owned by the Python
    Software Foundation and the Django Software Foundation.

Approved via email vote on February 4, 2012, 7-0-0.

`4   Treasurer Report <#id5>`_
------------------------------

The monthly Treasurer's Report was provided to Board members by K.
Kaiser prior to the Board meeting and produced from Quickbooks Online.

Here is an exerpt from the treasurer's report on a few of the activities
the treasurer has been focused on:

For the month of January 2012, the treasurer provided a sumation of the financial
activities by saying:

    Our assets were up by 490K in January, reflecting the payments for PyCon
    registration and sponsorship.  This was matched by a similar increase in
    liability.

    The next couple of months will continue to be very busy financially, but
    the P&L won't show much change until we recognize the results of PyCon
    2012.  At that point (triggered by paying the hotel bill) the accrued
    expense and revenue will move to the P&L and our assets and liabilities
    will return to normal levels.

He reported on the revenue and expense below: 

    Revenue: 

        In the month of January, YTD income was down by 2K. 

        Donations for the month were $1075.

    Expense: 

        **MISSING**

The treasurer goes on to say: 

    AR is up by 86K due to PyCon 2012 Sponsor and PSF Sponsor invoicing and
    collection activity.

    We opened a Bank of America account.  This allows us access to branches
    and cash across the country.  The regional nature of SunTrust has been
    causing us problems, especially now that PyCon has moved to California
    and grown substantially.

    Our lead accountant at Wendroff moved on (again), so time is being spent
    bringing the junior person up to speed while they replace the lead. I'm
    expecting some additional load over the next month or two due to this.

Kurt concluded his report with a list of financial business items he will
be focused on, he said:

    My focus is on PyCon issues, AR/AP reduction and the Associate Member
    program.

`5   Progress Reports <#id6>`_
------------------------------

The following board reports were submitted to the board mailing list
one week prior to this month's meeting. Please see a summary of each
board report listed below and a possible board discussion at the end
of the report(s):

`5.1   Communication Status <#id7>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

D. Hellmann, Communication Officer, reported on continued activities from
last month. He said:

    1. Send announcement email about the blog to various mailing lists
    (c.l.py, c.l.py.announce, etc.).

    *No progress.*

Doug also reported on the new activities for the month. He reported: 

    - None

He reported the following information on the planned activities for next month: 

    Nothing specific.

As far as the ongoing projects for the month are concerned, he reported: 

    - Brian Curtin is working on a post about the video equipment purchased by the PSF and how it has been used to record conference talks and other events.

    - Recruiting other people to help write for the blog.

    - We have initiated a transition plan so Brian Curtin can take over as Communications Director around the time of the next Board elections after PyCon 2012.

For tabled activities, D. Hellmann said: 

    - PyCon video equipment loan/rental program post      There was some discussion of offering the PyCon video equipment to PUGs for their meetings, but the mechanism to do it isn't in place, yet.

`5.2   Honorary Associate Membership Program <#id8>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

P. Campbell, Honorary Associate Membership (HAM) WebPages Start-up
Project, reported on the current issues or blockages the project may
be faced with by saying:

&quot;We have been in the technical phase of the Honorary Associate
Membership (HAM) Project for some time now. However, we are not too
far away from recruiting our first PSF Honorary Associate member.

Many technical hurdles have been jumped in order to setup the HAM program
and we are now beginning to see some movement toward getting the HAM website
page prepared to be utilized for membership recruitment and subscriptions.

Kurt has been asking for help with the text on the sign-up page and also help
with the the actual membership front page.&quot;

As far as the continued activities from last month are concerned, she reported: 

&quot;Since Kurt Kaiser, our treasurer, has been able to devote more time to the
HAM project implementation and setup, we should be able to set the launch date
soon. However, he is requesting help toward getting the website content
together.&quot;

Please see the message from Kurt Kaiser?s February 2012 treasurer?s report
regarding the current status of the technical phase of the HAM program
implementation and maintenance:

    The text on HAM signup pages is preliminary and needs improvement.
    I'm looking for help here!

    Continuing work on a front page with Associate Member sign-up
    information. Decide how to present the HAM Membership to the world,
    probably via a python.org link. I'm looking for help here!

    Progress was made on limiting the access to the Associate Member
    signup page to people who have registered on the site. The page was
    re-branded with a Python PSF logo. The mechanism for signing up
    Associate members is essentially finished, but the &quot;selling&quot; aspect
    needs better web content (just text!) before exposing it to the world!

`5.3   Marketing Material <#id9>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

M.A.Lemburg, Marketing Material Project Manager, provided a summary
of his work. He said:

    The project is lead by Marc-Andr? Lemburg who is in contact with
    the people behind the Plone brochure created by the German Zope
    User Group (DZUG): Jan Ulrich Hasecke and Armin Stro?-Radschinski.

    We started working on the concept a few weeks after World Plone Day
    in April 2010 and had several meetings and conference calls to take
    the idea forward.

    For more details, please see the brochure support site at: 

        `http://brochure.getpython.info/learn-more <http://brochure.getpython.info/learn-more>`_

Marc-Andr? also reported on the progress of his project when he said: 

    We have made good progress in the last few weeks. 

    The story selection process is mostly finished and we have
    already worked through most of the original texts to shorten
    them and make them better fit the format.

    Since we won't be having the brochure ready for PyCon US,
    but still want to benefit from the large number of attendees,
    we've created a smaller teaser version of the brochure to
    get attention of potential ad, reference and subscription
    sponsors.

    The teaser will be placed in the PyCon US attendee bags.
    Additional copies will be available at the registration
    desk in case you want to take some along to show to
    companies who might be interested in booking an ad or
    listing.

    Here's the link to the PDF of the teaser: 

    LINK REDACTED 

    Please don't pass the PDF around, since we haven't yet
    finalized the PDF redistribution rights on the content with
    the story contributors.

    Passing around the printed copies is fine, of course :-) 

    Unfortunately, no one from our team will attend PyCon US,
    so I hope that you'll all enjoy the conference. If you find
    people interested in the brochure, please feel free to
    direct them to the website or via email to brochure at getpython.info.

    Meanwhile, we're still getting new success stories - which is
    good, since we are actively collecting them in our tracker
    with the aim of putting them online after the first edition
    has been released and plan on using them for the second edition.

    If you know possible sponsors or are interested in sponsoring
    the brochure yourself, please check the available sponsorship plans
    we have available:

        `http://brochure.getpython.info/sponsorship <http://brochure.getpython.info/sponsorship>`_

    Here's the media data for the brochure: 

        `http://brochure.getpython.info/mediadata <http://brochure.getpython.info/mediadata>`_

    Esp. the reference entry sponsorships should be interesting for
    smaller Python companies:

        `http://brochure.getpython.info/mediadata/reference-entry-guidelines <http://brochure.getpython.info/mediadata/reference-entry-guidelines>`_

    We will announce the call for sponsors on the usual lists, feeds
    and our website, once we have the credit card system setup.

M.A Lemberg reported on the current issues the project is faced with.
He said:

    If you know of interesting projects or companies using Python
    to great things, please contact us and consider signing up as
    contact scout to provide on-site help at conferences or other
    events:

        `http://brochure.getpython.info/signup/contact-scout-signup <http://brochure.getpython.info/signup/contact-scout-signup>`_

    and, if you're interested in the project, please consider signing
    up to our newsletter:

        `http://brochure.getpython.info/ <http://brochure.getpython.info/>`_

    Thanks !

As far as the future plans for this project are concerned, he reported: 

    If the project goes well, we'll follow up with a second edition
    of the brochure, Python flyers using material extracted from the
    brochure, translated versions of the brochure and also consider
    creating marketing material more targeted at specific user groups or
    application fields.

    In the long run, we'd also like to take the idea of producing
    marketing material beyond printed material and develop booth
    setups, giveaways, CDs, etc. to support conference organizers and
    local user groups wishing to promote Python at their events.

`5.4   Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront <#id10>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The project leader, M.A. Lemburg, Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront,
reported on progress for the month:

&quot;The project is currently on hold, since the team members don't have
time to put into this.&quot;

In terms of having any issues surrounding his project, M. A.
Lemburg reported no issues except one: he said, he just does not have
enough time to devote to his Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront project.

- - Lemburg also reported on the future plans for this project:

&quot;Check to see whether a trigger based approach to S3 syncing
wouldn't be easier to implement right from the start.&quot;

`5.5   PyCon Chair <#id11>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

J. Noller, PyCon Chair, provided us with information on when and where
the next two PyCon US conferences will be held, in addition to the web
location of the official PyCon 2012. Please see below:

PyCon 2012: March 7th ? 15th, Santa Clara, CA
PyCon 2013: March 11th ? 21st, Santa Clara, CA
Official Site: `http://us.pycon.org/2012 <http://us.pycon.org/2012>`_

He also provided &quot;notes&quot; for this month. He said: 

    Attendance: 2022 Total attendance right now. (1904 regular; 92 tutorial only;
    26 expo only). This is way over our cap, and mainly due to bad estimates on my
    part and late sponsor registrations.

    We have shut down registration. 

    We have a record making 132 sponsors. 

    Financial update sent privately to board.

For this month, Jesse reported on &quot;Issues and blockages.&quot; He said: 

    - Networking contract unsigned

    - Power contract unsigned

As far as the continued activities from last month, he reported: 

    - Printed guide nearing completion.

    - Swag and T-shirts have been ordered.

    - Startup row winners announced.

    - Mobile guide moving smoothly.

    - On Site volunteers are organizing.

Jesse also listed the new activities for the month. Please see below: 

    - Schedule and promote Singpath tournament.

    - get Disqus system linked into site.

The last two PyCon US items reported on by Jesse were the activities &quot;planned for
next month&quot; where he listed one (1) item and included a list of the &quot;current
Heads/Staff for PyCon 2012.&quot;

    [see above] 

    - Hold conference. Keep Sanity.

`5.6   Current Heads/Staff for PyCon 2012 <#id12>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Chair: Jesse Noller
    Co-Chair: Yannick Gingras

    Accountant/Sponsors: Van Lindberg
    Event Coordinator: Ewa Jodlowska/CTE
    Public Relations Lead: Brian Curtin

    Tech Lead: Doug Napoleone
    Tech Co-Lead: Noah Kantrowtiz

    Volunteer Lead: TBD 

    Program Committee Chair: Jacob Kaplan-Moss
    Program Committee Co-Chair: Tim Lesher

    Tutorials Chair: Stuart Williams
    Tutorials Co-Chair: TBD

    Posters Chair: Vern Ceder
    Posters Co-Chair: Zac Miller

    Financial Aide Chair: Peter Kropf
    Financial Aide Co-Chair: Gloria W.

However, under &quot;tabled activities,&quot; he provided the following: 

    None

`6   Manage Officer/Director Spending <#id13>`_
-----------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the board repeals the previously passed resolution of June 12, 2006
    which states &quot;until further notice, the Officers of the Corporation may spend up to
    USD 500 per expense without prior Board approval, but subject to prompt reporting
    to the Board, and consistent with the mission statement and requirements of
    maintaining our status as a 501(c)3 non-profit.&quot;

    **RESOLVED**, that until further notice, the Officers of the Corporation may spend up to
    USD 250 per expense without prior Board approval, but subject to prompt reporting to
    the Board, and consistent with the mission statement and requirements of maintaining
    our status as a 501(c)3 non-profit.

    **RESOLVED**, that until further notice, the Directors of the Corporation may spend up to
    USD 500 per expense without prior Board approval, but subject to prompt reporting to
    the Board, and consistent with the mission statement and requirements of maintaining
    our status as a 501(c)3 non-profit.

    **RESOLVED**, that until further notice, the Secretary of the Corporation may spend up to
    USD 250 per expense without prior Board approval, for expenses needed to undertake its
    duties as outlined in the bylaws, and up to USD 500 per expense without prior Board
    approval, but subject to prompt reporting to the Board, and consistent with the mission
    statement and requirements of maintaining our status as a 501(c)3 non-profit.

Approved, 8-0-0.

`7   Administrator's Review <#id14>`_
-------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the Board recognizes the efforts expended by its
    Administrator, Pat Campbell, in furthering the development of the
    organization and the mission of the Foundation.

Approved, 8-0-0.

`8   Community Service Award Nomination for 2012-Q1 <#id15>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------

The board selected two winners for this year's 1st Quarter award which was
announced at PyCon US 2012.

    **RESOLVED**, that the 2012-1st Quarter PSF Community Service Award be granted to
    Carl Trachte and Audrey Roy.

Approved, 8-0-0.

`9   Adapt a New Official PSF Logo <#id16>`_
--------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the Python Software Foundation adapt the new logo designed by
    The Phuse as the official PSF logo, once the necessary paperwork has been completed.

Approved, 8-0-0.

`10   Dyn Inc. for DNS Hosting <#id17>`_
----------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF contracts Dyn Inc. for hosting DNS.

Approved, 7-1-0.

`11   Other Business <#id18>`_
------------------------------

None

`12   Adjournment <#id19>`_
---------------------------

- Holden adjourned the meeting at 16:48 UTC.