Articles of Incorporation of the Python Software Foundation
===========================================================

State of Delaware

Secretary of State

Division of Corporations

Filed 04:30 PM  02/20/2001

010084958 - 3359300

Certificate of Incorporation of Python Software Foundation
##########################################################

The undersigned, acting as incorporators of a corporation under the
Delaware General Corporation Law, adopt the following certificate of
incorporation for such corporation:

Article I Name
##############

The name of the corporation is Python Software Foundation (the
"Corporation").

Article II Initial Registered Agent and Office
##############################################

The street address of the Corporation's initial registered office is
1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, and the name of its
initial registered agent at that address is The Corporation Trust
Company.

Article III Purpose
###################

The Corporation is organized and shall be operated exclusively for
scientific, educational, and charitable purposes, including:

(a) aggregating intellectual property consisting of the computer
language known as "Python," components of which are currently held by
multiple parties;

(b) educating and training members of the general public in the
application of Python;

(c) offering Python to members of the general public through the use of
open source code licensing; and

(d) developing Python more extensively through scientific research
conducted by the Corporation.

The Corporation shall have all powers now or hereafter granted by law,
and in addition thereto shall have all powers lawfully necessary or
required to carry out its purposes.  All of the assets or earnings
shall be used exclusively for the purposes hereinabove set out,
including payment of expenses incidental thereto.  No part of the net
earnings shall inure to the benefit of any individual, and no part of
its activities shall be for the carrying on of propaganda or otherwise
attempting to influence legislation.

Article IV Capital Stock and Membership
#######################################

The Corporation shall not have the authority to issue stock and the
conditions of membership shall be stated in the bylaws.

Article V Principal Office and Mailing Address
##############################################

The principal office and mailing address of the Corporation is 512
Lafayette Boulevard, Suite 2, Fredericksburg, Virginia 22401.

Article VI Incorporators
########################

The names and address of the incorporators are: 

Shawn O'Donnell

512 Lafayette Boulevard, Suite 2

Fredericksburg, Virginia  22401

Paul Everitt

512 Lafayette Boulevard, Suite 2

Fredericksburg, Virginia  22401

Article VII Bylaws
##################

The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have the power to
adopt, amend, or repeal the Bylaws of the Corporation.

Article VIII Dissolution
########################

Upon a dissolution of the Corporation, the residual assets of the
Corporation will be turned over to one or more organizations which
themselves are exempt as organizations described in Sections 501(c)(3)
and 170(c)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or
corresponding sections of any prior or future law, or to the federal,
state, or local government for exclusive public purpose.

Dated this 16 day of February 2001. 

Shawn O'Donnell, Incorporator

Paul Everitt, Incorporator